Alaska Access is a new and evolving subscription service, and we genuinely appreciate feedback on it, a carrier spokesperson said in an email. We are committed to listening closely to our guests, as we do with all of our products and services, and are actively working to ensure the benefits of the subscription align with the needs and expectations of our valued subscribers.

With your Alaska Access subscription, we will notify you about the sale the night before it hits our site.

Alaska told TPG that it has published at least one early sale alert each month since the launch of the program.

We understand some subscribers may not have their apps set to receive alerts for these types of marketing communications and are working with our engineering teams to find a solution, a carrier spokesperson said.

Alaska calls it a unique web page where you'll be able to see our lowest fares by money and miles to our more than 500 global destinations! This view takes the guesswork and time out of finding the best valued flights on Alaska Airlines.

Personalized fare pages are accessible without a log-in and therefore are accessible to the general public if shared. Early sale access is not guaranteed to be exclusive to Alaska Access subscribers. Alaska Airlines maintains the right to notify and grant access to any sale before publishing it via Alaska Access, in Alaska Airlines' sole discretion. No additional discount above or beyond a sale or deal price is marketed or granted to Alaska Access subscribers as a part of their subscription.

The Alaska Access membership requires a 12-month commitment. Though we'd be sad to see you go, if you want to set your subscription to expire at the end of this term, please do so through this Recurly Account Management Page and use your email to log in.

The Alaska Access subscription is for a minimum period of one year, with payments billed monthly. If the subscriber wishes to cancel, the cancellation will be effective at the end of the then-applicable one year subscription period. It is the responsibility of the subscriber to cancel; unless otherwise requested the Alaska Access subscription will continue to renew each year and continue to be billed monthly.
