Major disappointment: Here's why I canceled my Alaska Airlines subscription service - The Points Guy
Skip to content
Menu
Go to Home Page
Subscribe
Advertiser disclosure
Search The Points Guy
Advertiser disclosure
ADVERTISEMENT
News
Major disappointment: Here's why I canceled my Alaska Airlines subscription service
Clint Henderson
Clint Henderson
Principal Spokesperson
Clint Henderson is a managing editor at TPG who has worked in the journalism industry for more than 25 years. He is obsessed with travel and has used points and miles to explore the world.
April 07, 2025
•
12 min read
Jump to section
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Copy URL
Email
The cards we feature here are from partners who compensate us when you are approved through our site, and this may impact how or where these products appear. We don’t cover all available credit cards, but our analysis, reviews, and opinions are entirely from our editorial team. Terms apply to the offers listed on this page. Please view our
advertising policy
and
product review methodology
for more information.
Editor's Note
This post was updated with new information.&nbsp;
In March of 2024,
Alaska Airlines
launched a
paid subscription service
for early access to Alaska fare sales, a personalized fare page and free Wi-Fi credits. The Seattle-based airline calls the service "Alaska Access." I was excited to test it out since, at the time, Alaska said it would give subscribers advance notice for some of its biggest deals of the year.
I eagerly signed up to try it out for TPG, shelling out $5 a month. Now that it's been a year, I wanted to share the results of my experiment.
ALASKA AIRLINES
What a disappointment.
I was a member for a year, but saw very little benefit and have now canceled my subscription. Still, it might be worth it for a few very frequent Alaska flyers.
I reached out to Alaska Airlines about the issues I was seeing a few months ago.
"Alaska Access is a new and evolving subscription service, and we genuinely appreciate feedback on it," a carrier spokesperson said in an email. "We are committed to listening closely to our guests, as we do with all of our products and services, and are actively working to ensure the benefits of the subscription align with the needs and expectations of our valued subscribers."
I was hoping it would get better by the time a year had gone by, but that wasn't the case. If you're weighing whether to consider subscribing, here's what you need to know.
Alaska Access early sale notifications
Alaska Access website. JOE NICHOLSON/ALASKA AIRLINES
The biggest selling point of the Alaska Access program is an early heads-up about sales on Alaska Airlines flights — what a letdown. If you want to get notified early, you'll need to check the app every day. There are no email notifications sent to members; you have to hope to get lucky when checking the app — and that's if you get notified at all. Below are just a few of the many sales Alaska sent to my email inbox that I never saw in my Alaska Airlines app messages.
Previous slide
Next slide
1
of
5
Alaska deal email. ALASKA AIRLINES
0
1
2
3
4
I caught lightning in a bottle just once during my membership, when I noticed a message in the app that there was a three-day sale taking place. The problem? I only saw the notification Aug. 7, and the sale ended Aug. 8. So I couldn't beat the public to the sale.
Daily Newsletter
Reward your inbox with the TPG Daily newsletter
Join over 700,000 readers for breaking news, in-depth guides and exclusive deals from TPG’s experts
Email address
Sign up
By signing up, you will receive newsletters and promotional content and agree to our
Terms of Use
and acknowledge the data practices in our
Privacy Policy
. You may unsubscribe at any time.
Alaska early sale notification. ALASKA AIRLINES
According to Alaska's announcement about the feature, "With your Alaska Access subscription, we will notify you about the sale the night before it hits our site." I just haven't found that to be the case. I do check the app regularly, and this is the only early access notification I got in six months of membership.
Hopefully, Alaska will take this feedback and find a better way to communicate these deal alerts. It's totally unacceptable that a promised benefit isn't being delivered consistently. Since this is one of the main selling points of the subscription, fixing it would substantially improve the value of the feature.
When I spoke with Alaska Airlines about the issues, the carrier told me the sale notifications are only sent in the app because oftentimes emails get buried in people's inboxes. Of course, most people are more likely to see an email than an app notification, but at least Alaska is aware there is an issue. Alaska told TPG that it has published at least one early sale alert each month since the launch of the program.
"We understand some subscribers may not have their apps set to receive alerts for these types of marketing communications and are working with our engineering teams to find a solution," a carrier spokesperson said.
In the months since I wrote the original article, I did get one more heads-up on a sale — but that's not worth $5 a month in my book.
Previous slide
Next slide
1
of
2
Alaska early notification of sale. ALASKA
0
1
Alaska Access deals page
JOE NICHOLSON/ALASKA AIRLINES
The other big selling point for the subscription service is supposed to be a "personalized fare page." The page theoretically shows you the lowest fares using cash or
Alaska Airlines Mileage Plan
miles. Alaska calls it "a unique web page where you'll be able to see our lowest fares by money and miles to our more than 500 global destinations! This view takes the guesswork and time out of finding the best valued flights on Alaska Airlines."
Unfortunately, my experience with that was uneven.
To start, that page was difficult to find. I searched all over, including on my logged-in Alaska Access membership page, to find it, but there were no links on Alaska Airlines' website or in Google. I finally had to go to my welcome email from back in March to find
a link to the website
.
Alaska Access booking page. ALASKA AIRLINES
I did a few test runs using both New York City's John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK) and Seattle-Tacoma International Airport (SEA) as my home airport and found a few deals. The problem is that the deals weren't better than the ones on the regular Alaska website. There were no special discounts or deals just for being an Alaska Access subscriber. What's the point?
Previous slide
Next slide
1
of
3
Booking via the Alaska Access page. ALASKA AIRLINES
0
1
2
When I did a normal search on the public Alaska Airlines website, I found the same flight to Phoenix that the Alaska Access personalized page displayed.
A cheap Alaska Airlines flight to Phoenix. ALASKA AIRLINES
Again, there was no special magic that I was able to find on this personalized page.
Here's the legal language Alaska uses to explain away some of the issues with both the early access and personalized fare page benefits:
"Personalized fare pages are accessible without a log-in and therefore are accessible to the general public if shared. Early sale access is not guaranteed to be exclusive to Alaska Access subscribers. Alaska Airlines maintains the right to notify and grant access to any sale before publishing it via Alaska Access, in Alaska Airlines' sole discretion. No additional discount above or beyond a sale or deal price is marketed or granted to Alaska Access subscribers as a part of their subscription."
In other words, the personalized page isn't really personalized and is available to the public, and early access to sales isn't guaranteed to be exclusive to subscribers.
So, why was I paying $5 a month for this subscription, exactly?
Alaska Access Wi-Fi vouchers
On board an Alaska Airlines jet. CLINT HENDERSON/THE POINTS GUY
Finally, this subscription offers one concrete benefit that could be useful to regular Alaska flyers.
JOE NICHOLSON/ALASKA AIRLINES
During the year I had Alaska Access, I did actually use the monthly Wi-Fi credit. It's supposed to be just $5 per month, but when I entered the promo code from my email into the checkout page at alaskawifi.com, it took off the full $8 price for full-flight Wi-Fi, so I paid nothing for Wi-Fi on my flight from JFK to SEA.
Previous slide
Next slide
1
of
3
Alaska Access free Wi-Fi email. ALASKA AIRLINES
0
1
2
However, I tried to use it again on a recent flight from SEA to Ted Stevens Anchorage International Airport (ANC) in Alaska, but even though I was on the same plane, the carrier wouldn't let me use the Wi-Fi voucher again.
Canceling Alaska Access
Canceling Alaska Access was also a bit frustrating.
When I looked into canceling, I was disappointed to read that I was locked into spending $5 a month for the first year.
According to the Alaska Airlines enrollment email, "The Alaska Access membership requires a 12-month commitment. Though we'd be sad to see you go, if you want to set your subscription to expire at the end of this term, please do so through this
Recurly Account Management Page
and use your email to log in."
A third party, Recurly, runs the subscription service.
When my one-year anniversary was coming up, I made sure to cancel, which went off without a hitch.
Alaska Access cancellation. ALASKA
If you decide to try it out, be sure to read the terms and conditions carefully. Here's how they reference cancellations:
"
The Alaska Access subscription is for a minimum period of one year, with payments billed monthly. If the subscriber wishes to cancel, the cancellation will be effective at the end of the then-applicable one year subscription period. It is the responsibility of the subscriber to cancel; unless otherwise requested the Alaska Access subscription will continue to renew each year and continue to be billed monthly."
Alaska Access cancellation. ALASKA AIRLINES
Bottom line
CLINT HENDERSON/THE POINTS GUY
I'm a big fan of Alaska Airlines, but the Alaska Access subscription was frustrating and unprofitable.
I'm disappointed the Alaska Access subscription didn't turn out to be as good a deal as I'd hoped.
I don't take as many Alaska flights as I used to
, so getting $8 in value from Wi-Fi credits after spending $60 on my membership so far hasn't been worth it.
"Alaska's new subscription product seems like a well-conceived idea, but the devil is in the details," Henry Harteveldt, a travel industry analyst and president of
Atmosphere Research Group
, told TPG back in March.
That certainly turned out to be the case. I feel like I wasted $60.
While the Alaska Access subscription might make sense for those who fly Alaska at least once a month and can use the monthly Wi-Fi credits, it makes little sense for the rest of us.
I'm hopeful Alaska will beef up this program if the airline continues it into the future.
Related reading:
Key travel tips you need to know — whether you're a first-time or frequent traveler
Best travel credit cards
6 real-life strategies you can use when your flight is canceled or delayed
8 of the best credit cards for general travel purchases
13 must-have items the TPG team can't travel without
Featured image by
JOE NICHOLSON/ALASKA AIRLINES
Editorial disclaimer: Opinions expressed here are the author’s alone, not those of any bank, credit card issuer, airline or hotel chain, and have not been reviewed, approved or otherwise endorsed by any of these entities.
TPG featured card
Bilt Palladium Card
TPG Editor‘s Rating
4
/ 5
Go to review
Apply for
Bilt Palladium Card
Apply now
for
Bilt Palladium Card
at
Bilt
's secure site
Terms & restrictions apply.
See rates & fees.
Rewards rate
1X
Choose to earn up to 1X points on rent and mortgage payments with no transaction fee
2X
Earn 2X points + the option to earn 4% back in Bilt Cash on everyday purchases
Intro offer
Open
Intro bonus
Welcome bonus (subject to approval): 50,000 Bilt Points + Gold Status after spending $4,000 on everyday purchases in the first 90 days + $300 of Bilt Cash.
50,000 Bilt Points + Gold Status + $300 of Bilt Cash
Annual fee
$495
Regular APR
26.74 - 34.74% variable
Recommended credit
Open
Credit score description
Credit ranges are a variation of FICO® Score 8, one of many types of credit scores lenders may use when considering your credit card application.
Good Credit, Excellent Credit
VIEW MORE
Pros + cons
More details
Pros
Choice to earn up to 1 Bilt Point per dollar spent on rent and mortgage payments
Elevated everyday earnings with both Bilt Points and the option to earn Bilt Cash
$400 Bilt Travel Portal hotel credit per year (up to $200 biannually)
$200 Bilt Cash annually
Priority Pass membership
No foreign transaction fees
Cons
Moderate annual fee
Designed primarily for members seeking a premium, all-in-one card
Earn points on housing with no transaction fee
Choose to earn 4% back in Bilt Cash on everyday spend. Use Bilt Cash to unlock point earnings on rent and mortgage payments with no transaction fee, up to 1X.
2X points on everyday spend
$400 Bilt Travel Hotel credit. Applied twice a year, as $200 statement credits, for qualifying Bilt Travel Portal hotel bookings.
$200 Bilt Cash (awarded annually). At the end of each calendar year, any Bilt Cash balance over $100 will expire.
Welcome bonus (subject to approval): 50,000 Bilt Points + Gold Status after spending $4,000 on everyday purchases in the first 90 days + $300 of Bilt Cash.
Priority Pass ($469/year value). See
Guide to Benefits
.
Bilt Point redemptions include airlines, hotels, future rent and mortgage payments, Lyft rides, statement credits, student loan balances, a down payment on a home, and more.
gtm--featured-card-11038
Maximize your travel
Facebook
Instagram
YouTube
Twitter
TikTok
Sign up for our daily newsletter for the latest news, deals and tips.
Email address
Subscribe
By signing up, you will receive newsletters and promotional content and agree to our
Terms of Use
and acknowledge the data practices in our
Privacy Policy
. You may unsubscribe at any time.
Meet TPG
About us
TPG gives back
Careers
Contact us
Site map
Newsletters
Legal
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
Privacy policy
Terms of use
Cookie settings
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Our Commitment to Transparency
The Points Guy believes that credit cards can transform lives, helping you leverage everyday spending for cash back or travel experiences that might otherwise be out of reach. That’s why we publish a variety of editorial content and card comparisons: to help you find a great card to turn your goals into reality.
Our site may earn compensation when a customer clicks on a link, when an application is approved, or when an account is opened with our partners, and this may impact how or where these products appear. While we don’t cover all available credit cards, our editorial team creates and maintains all of the analysis of these cards, and our content is not influenced nor subject to review by any credit card company, bank or partner prior to (or after) publication. Please view our
advertising policy
and
product review methodology
for more information.
Copyright ©
2026
The Points Guy, LLC. All rights reserved. A Red Ventures company.