Score bonus miles: Register now for United’s latest Mile Play promotion - The Points Guy
Skip to content
Menu
Go to Home Page
Subscribe
Advertiser disclosure
Search The Points Guy
Advertiser disclosure
ADVERTISEMENT
News
Score bonus miles: Register now for United’s latest Mile Play promotion
Kyle Olsen
Kyle Olsen
Points and Miles Expert
Kyle Olsen is the former points and miles reporter at TPG. He specializes in maximizing points and miles, elite status and credit cards so readers travel more comfortably and at a lower cost.
Gabrielle Bernardini
Gabrielle Bernardini
Senior editor
Gabrielle Bernardini is the senior points and miles editor at TPG. Joining the team in 2023, she focuses on helping people utilize their credit card rewards to travel for less.
also contributed to this story
Oct. 16, 2025
•
5 min read
Jump to section
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Copy URL
Email
The cards we feature here are from partners who compensate us when you are approved through our site, and this may impact how or where these products appear. We don’t cover all available credit cards, but our analysis, reviews, and opinions are entirely from our editorial team. Terms apply to the offers listed on this page. Please view our
advertising policy
and
product review methodology
for more information.
Editor's Note
This is a recurring post, regularly updated with the latest information.
United Airlines has launched a new round of Mile Play promotions, which award bonus miles to targeted members after they complete specific tasks. Now's a good time to check your eligibility and register — even if you're unsure about your upcoming travel plans.
To see if you're eligible and register,
visit United's Mile Play page
. Enter your
United MileagePlus
number, check the box stating you aren't a robot and click "Start Mile Play."
As is normal with these promotions, offers vary widely from one member to another. United may not have targeted some members for Mile Play, while others will see different rewards and requirements to earn them. We checked around the TPG team and found varying offers.
Examples of United's Mile Play offers
Senior travel editor
Lyndsey Matthews
, who does not hold MileagePlus status, received an offer to book and take two trips by Dec. 22 to earn 2,800 bonus miles; the fare has to be more than $300 per trip.
Senior director of content
Summer Hull
, who has Premier Gold status with United, received an offer to earn 9,000 bonus miles if she takes five trips of $100 or more.
TPG writer,
Rachel Craft
, does not hold status and received an offer to book and take two trips by Dec. 22 to earn 7,200 miles; the fare has to be more than $175 per trip.
TPG director of travel,
Eric Rosen
, received an offer to earn 3,000 miles after he books and takes one trip; the fare has to be $100 or more.
Lead writer,
Katie Genter
, who holds United Silver status because she achieved
Marriott Titanium Elite status
, received an offer to book and take two trips by Dec. 22 to earn 14,000 miles; the fare has to be more than $225 per trip.
Other TPG staff members received the following offers:
Daily Newsletter
Reward your inbox with the TPG Daily newsletter
Join over 700,000 readers for breaking news, in-depth guides and exclusive deals from TPG’s experts
Email address
Sign up
By signing up, you will receive newsletters and promotional content and agree to our
Terms of Use
and acknowledge the data practices in our
Privacy Policy
. You may unsubscribe at any time.
Take two trips by Dec. 22 and earn 4,600 miles; the fare has to be more than $225 per trip.
Take one trip by Dec. 22 to earn 6,000 miles; the fare has to be more than $200.
Keep in mind that to count toward these promotions, trips generally must be booked and flown after you register but before the promotion's end date (Dec. 22). So if you already have a trip planned during the Mile Play window, it won't qualify (though you might consider canceling and rebooking it). Unless otherwise noted in your offer's terms, only paid flights marketed and operated by United and United Express will count toward Mile Play offers.
Best cards to use to book United flights
Whether or not you're targeted for this promotion, you can
earn lots of bonus United miles
by opening a cobranded credit card. Here's a look at the current welcome bonuses on select
United cards
:
United℠ Explorer Card
(see
rates and fees
): Earn up to 80,000 bonus miles: Earn 70,000 bonus miles after spending $3,000 on purchases in the first three months from account opening. Plus, earn 10,000 bonus miles after adding an authorized user in the first three months from account opening.
United Quest℠ Card
(see
rates and fees
): Earn up to 100,000 bonus miles and 3,000 PQPs: Earn 90,000 bonus miles and 3,000 PQPs after spending $4,000 on purchases in the first three months from account opening. Plus, earn 10,000 bonus miles after adding an authorized user in the first three months from account opening.
United Club℠ Card
(see
rates and fees
): Earn up to 110,000 bonus miles and 3,000 PQPs: Earn 100,000 bonus miles and 3,000 PQPs after spending $5,000 on purchases within the first three months from account opening. Plus, earn 10,000 bonus miles after adding an authorized user in the first three months from account opening.
United Gateway℠ Card
(see
rates and fees
): Earn up to 40,000 bonus miles: Earn 30,000 bonus miles after spending $1,000 on purchases in the first three months from account opening. Plus, earn 10,000 bonus miles after adding an authorized user in the first three months from account opening.
United℠ Business Card
(see
rates and fees
): Earn up to 110,000 bonus miles and 2,000 PQPs: Earn 100,000 bonus miles and 2,000 PQP after spending $5,000 on purchases in the first three months from account opening. Plus, earn 10,000 bonus miles after adding an authorized user in the first three months from account opening.
Although cobranded credit cards can help you earn United miles, you may earn more rewards when you book with one of the
best cards for airfare purchases
. For example,
American Express Platinum Card®
earns 5 points per dollar spent on airfare booked directly with the airline or through American Express Travel® (on up to $500,000 of these purchases per calendar year, then 1 point per dollar).
Bottom line
Even if you don't have any upcoming travel plans with United, it's worth registering and considering whether it's time to plan a trip. If you have any flights booked that are fully refundable — with United or other airlines — you should consider whether your Mile Play offer is compelling enough for you to cancel and rebook with United.
Related reading:
How to get United Club lounge access: From credit cards to paid memberships
Best credit cards for airport lounge access
The best credit cards to reach elite status
Featured image by
ZACH GRIFF/THE POINTS GUY
Editorial disclaimer: Opinions expressed here are the author’s alone, not those of any bank, credit card issuer, airline or hotel chain, and have not been reviewed, approved or otherwise endorsed by any of these entities.
Maximize your travel
Facebook
Instagram
YouTube
Twitter
TikTok
Sign up for our daily newsletter for the latest news, deals and tips.
Email address
Subscribe
By signing up, you will receive newsletters and promotional content and agree to our
Terms of Use
and acknowledge the data practices in our
Privacy Policy
. You may unsubscribe at any time.
Meet TPG
About us
TPG gives back
Careers
Contact us
Site map
Newsletters
Legal
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
Privacy policy
Terms of use
Cookie settings
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Our Commitment to Transparency
The Points Guy believes that credit cards can transform lives, helping you leverage everyday spending for cash back or travel experiences that might otherwise be out of reach. That’s why we publish a variety of editorial content and card comparisons: to help you find a great card to turn your goals into reality.
Our site may earn compensation when a customer clicks on a link, when an application is approved, or when an account is opened with our partners, and this may impact how or where these products appear. While we don’t cover all available credit cards, our editorial team creates and maintains all of the analysis of these cards, and our content is not influenced nor subject to review by any credit card company, bank or partner prior to (or after) publication. Please view our
advertising policy
and
product review methodology
for more information.
Copyright ©
2026
The Points Guy, LLC. All rights reserved. A Red Ventures company.