Alaska Airlines Signs Multi-Year Architect Deal | ATPCO
Skip to content
Solutions
Close Solutions
Open Solutions
CREATE OFFERS
Tools
Architect
Sophisticated management of your offers
Express Contracts
Streamline fare and rule updates for private and public data
FareManager
Start here to get your fares and related data ready for the market
Branded Fares
Craft the bundles your shoppers want
Dynamic Offers
Explore support for current and future offer creation
Product Catalog
Connects fares, products, and services under one shared standard
Market Analysis
Architect Query
Valuable market insights in a single tool
Assembled Data
Competitive data packaged the way you need it
Price Elements
Merged fare and rule data for your analysis systems
3Victors
Put the power of data to work
DISTRIBUTE OFFERS
Subscriptions
Power your pricing and shopping systems
NDC
Support of industry-wide innovation
APIs
System-to-system data integration
PRESENT OFFERS
Routehappy
Beautifully display offers with our merchandising data
Modern Airline Retailing Attributes
Guidelines for comparison-based fare searches
SERVICE & SETTLE
Your trusted source for tax, proration, historical sales, and other revenue accounting data
Settlement
Proration, historical sales data, and other revenue accounting tools
Taxes
The trusted source for taxes and refund/reissues policies
Booking confidently
With Routehappy Virtual Tours
Learn how
ATPCO's Product Catalog solution
Bridging the future
Learn more
Collaboration
Close Collaboration
Open Collaboration
Community Participation
Join the community with everything you need to get started
Councils & Design Teams
Shape the products of the future
Standards
Guidelines that support every organization
Unlock more value
With Community Participation
Learn more
Learning
Close Learning
Open Learning
Resources
Helpful documents and inspiring real-world uses
Blog
Newsworthy notes on the industry and product usage
Training
Educational materials and course information
Glossary
Your cheat sheet for industry lingo and acronyms
Modern airline retailing
Articles explaining the industry shift to offers and orders
How agentic AI
Is changing flight shopping
Get the report
About
Close About
Open About
About Us
What we do and who we are
Careers
Start your journey with ATPCO
Press
The latest news worth talking about
Events
Find us in the wild
On demand videos
Watch sessions from our previous events
Elevate 2025
Focus Summit+ 2024
Meet our new CEO
Brett Burgess arrives
Learn more
Contact
Log in
Search
Contact
Login
Press release
Alaska Airlines Signs Multi-Year Architect Deal with ATPCO
Alaska Airlines selected Architect to manage its pricing strategy and simplify its workflow through industry leading automation ATPCO today announced that Alaska Airlines has signed a multi-year deal for its premier pricing tool, Architect. Following a thorough evaluation of the tool’s next-generation capabilities and functionality, the airline has already begun
20 April 2022
Alaska Airlines selected Architect to manage its pricing strategy and simplify its workflow through industry leading automation
ATPCO today announced that Alaska Airlines has signed a multi-year deal for its premier pricing tool,
Architect
. Following a thorough evaluation of the tool’s next-generation capabilities and functionality, the airline has already begun its migration to Architect. Architect re-imagines traditional pricing management and fare filing processes, enabling airlines to transition from managing fares to managing their pricing strategy.
Kirsten Amrine, Managing Director of Revenue Management at Alaska Airlines, said Architect clearly stood out as the pricing platform of the future. “When ATPCO showed us the capabilities of Architect, we saw a clear vision that aligned with the way Alaska Airlines imagines the future of pricing management. Architect’s capabilities enable us to be even more strategic, and we are taking advantage of the efficiencies Architect offers to unlock the full revenue potential of our network and pricing strategy.”
“Pricing automation capabilities that ensure the right product is distributed to the right channel at the right price can bring about significant cost savings and revenue gains,” said Will Linderman, Director of Global Sales at ATPCO. “It is as much art as it is science, and for airlines to make the best strategic decisions they need a solution like
Architect
. Automation is only effective if the tool is easy to use and has the most up-to-date and complete data.”
With the growing adoption of Architect, ATPCO is working collaboratively with airlines to ensure they have an active voice in prioritizing the tool’s feature roadmap. “The feedback we have received to date is encouraging as our partners identify new and innovative ways to leverage the data insights and automation that Architect provides. The untapped revenue optimization opportunities enabled by Architect contribute to accelerating our partners’ revenue growth,” Linderman continued.
Jonathan Northard, Director of Revenue Management at Alaska Airlines, added, “We have been impressed by the support we have received from ATPCO in training and during the migration to the Architect platform. Onboarding a new pricing system isn’t an easy thing to do, but the partnership with ATPCO and our shared vision has given the team comfort in making the transition. We look forward to continued collaboration with the ATPCO Architect team and providing even greater input into the future of airline pricing.”
ATPCO is committed to its long-term investment and innovation in
Architect
and will continually add new features and functionality to support its partners’ efforts in achieving pricing excellence, creating efficiencies that enable each individual airline to make its own pricing decisions. At a customer meeting hosted by ATPCO in Miami in late March, Alaska Airlines and other Architect customers came together to help shape the future development roadmap of the pricing tool.
Learn more
Megan Humphries
Media contact for ATPCO
Contact us
You might also like
Media inquiries
If you are a journalist, industry analyst, or conference organizer, please contact Global Head of Communications Megan Humphries.
Get in touch
Download the press kit
System Status
Linkedin
Youtube
Sign up for emails
GET IN TOUCH
ATPCO Headquarters
2340 Dulles Corner Blvd, Ste 800
Herndon, VA 20171
Regional offices
+1-703-661-7400
SOLUTIONS
Create offers
Ancillaries
Architect
Architect Query
Assembled Data
Branded Fares
Dynamic Offers
Express Contracts
FareManager
Price Elements
3Victors
Service & Settle Orders
Product Catalog
Distribute offers
APIs
NDC
Pricing & Shopping Subscriptions
Present offers
Routehappy
Routehappy Attributes
Routehappy Visuals
Modern Airline Retailing Attributes
COLLABORATION
Community Participation
Councils & Design teams
Standards
LEARNING
Blog
Glossary
Resources
Training
ABOUT
About us
Careers
Events
Press
Contact
Log in to MyATPCO
© Copyright
ATPCO. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
|
Compliance
|
Terms of Use
Cookie Notice!
We use cookies to improve your experience on our site. By using our site you consent to cookies. Read our
Privacy Policy
.
Got it!