Alaska Airlines & Architect use case | ATPCO
Skip to content
Solutions
Close Solutions
Open Solutions
CREATE OFFERS
Tools
Architect
Sophisticated management of your offers
Express Contracts
Streamline fare and rule updates for private and public data
FareManager
Start here to get your fares and related data ready for the market
Branded Fares
Craft the bundles your shoppers want
Dynamic Offers
Explore support for current and future offer creation
Product Catalog
Connects fares, products, and services under one shared standard
Market Analysis
Architect Query
Valuable market insights in a single tool
Assembled Data
Competitive data packaged the way you need it
Price Elements
Merged fare and rule data for your analysis systems
3Victors
Put the power of data to work
DISTRIBUTE OFFERS
Subscriptions
Power your pricing and shopping systems
NDC
Support of industry-wide innovation
APIs
System-to-system data integration
PRESENT OFFERS
Routehappy
Beautifully display offers with our merchandising data
Modern Airline Retailing Attributes
Guidelines for comparison-based fare searches
SERVICE & SETTLE
Your trusted source for tax, proration, historical sales, and other revenue accounting data
Settlement
Proration, historical sales data, and other revenue accounting tools
Taxes
The trusted source for taxes and refund/reissues policies
Booking confidently
With Routehappy Virtual Tours
Learn how
ATPCO's Product Catalog solution
Bridging the future
Learn more
Collaboration
Close Collaboration
Open Collaboration
Community Participation
Join the community with everything you need to get started
Councils & Design Teams
Shape the products of the future
Standards
Guidelines that support every organization
Unlock more value
With Community Participation
Learn more
Learning
Close Learning
Open Learning
Resources
Helpful documents and inspiring real-world uses
Blog
Newsworthy notes on the industry and product usage
Training
Educational materials and course information
Glossary
Your cheat sheet for industry lingo and acronyms
Modern airline retailing
Articles explaining the industry shift to offers and orders
How agentic AI
Is changing flight shopping
Get the report
About
Close About
Open About
About Us
What we do and who we are
Careers
Start your journey with ATPCO
Press
The latest news worth talking about
Events
Find us in the wild
On demand videos
Watch sessions from our previous events
Elevate 2025
Focus Summit+ 2024
Meet our new CEO
Brett Burgess arrives
Learn more
Contact
Log in
Search
Contact
Login
Case Study
The premier pricing management tool of the future
9 February 2024
Airline pricing is complex, there’s no denying it. With data volumes increasing by the minute and having to manage multiple markets and pricing strategies,
Alaska Airlines
knew they needed a solution that was future-focused while still allowing them to keep current market needs in sight.
They turned to ATPCO’s pricing management tool, Architect, to reduce workflow complexities, quickly execute strategic pricing changes, and more easily manage fare volumes. Now, Alaska Airlines has reimagined traditional pricing management and fare filing processes and is reaping the benefits of using the premier pricing management tool.
The business need
Rapid, strategic, and automated responses to market changes
Alaska Airlines needed to go from just managing fares to managing their pricing strategies. They had a complex market set and had built automation to manage competitive fares, but as strategies became more complex, their analysts could not easily make changes. They needed a tool that unlocked the full revenue potential of their network and pricing strategies while allowing them to be even more strategic and empower every one of their analysts to rapidly make changes.
The solution
Simplifying the execution of pricing strategies with Architect
ATPCO’s Architect was the solution that Alaska Airlines needed to take their pricing, automation, and market change management to the next level. Using Architect’s Blueprint feature, their team is now able to rapidly execute their pricing strategy to manage markets. They can also search and analyze integrated web fares for a holistic market comparison in a single place. Whether they want to see every detail or the big picture, with Architect, it’s just a few clicks away.
Architect allows them the ability to manage markets quickly and easily, reprioritize their focus back to developing and managing strategies, and find new opportunities rather than spend time manipulating data, fixing avoidable errors, and making decisions with incomplete data.
“When ATPCO showed us the capabilities of Architect, we saw a clear vision that aligned with the way Alaska Airlines imagines the future of pricing management. Architect’s capabilities enable us to be even more strategic, and we are taking advantage of the efficiencies Architect offers to unlock the full revenue potential of our network and pricing strategy,” said Kirsten Amrine, VP of Revenue Management & Network Planning at Alaska Airlines.
The results
Spending less time in silos and more time working together
Using Architect has allowed Alaska Airlines to flourish in more ways than one. They’ve been able to automate, customize, and streamline their pricing strategies efficiently so they can quickly respond to market changes.
The oneworld Alliance is a global airline alliance that provides members the ability to work together to provide smooth travel experiences around the world. Being an Architect customer has helped Alaska to take full advantage of the benefits of joining the alliance because they can use the Blueprint module to create seamless fare products for travel across a truly global network while maintaining airline and pricing autonomy.
Alaska Airlines has also taken advantage of Architect’s community model of product enhancements. With the ability to submit enhancement and new feature requests, they’re helping shape the roadmap of the tool to make it work for not only them, but also for the entire industry.
“We were impressed by the support we received from ATPCO in training and during the migration to the Architect platform. Onboarding a new pricing system isn’t an easy thing to do, but the partnership with ATPCO and our shared vision gave the team comfort in making the transition,” said Jonathan Northard, Director of Sales Strategy, Operations and Analysis at Alaska Airlines.
Conclusion
By tapping into the capabilities and power of Architect, and with help from the ATPCO team through onboarding and partnership, Alaska Airlines has streamlined their pricing initiatives, increased their teams’ efficiencies, and are well on their way to achieving pricing excellence. ATPCO’s Architect is the solution that acts as the bridge between where the industry is today and where we want to be tomorrow. Alaska Airlines is setting themselves up for the future of modern airline retailing—and ultimately, the evolution to dynamically created offers—by using Architect.
Take the next step toward the future of pricing. Talk to an ATPCO expert today.
Request a demo
You might also like
Get your airline fares to market faster, easier, and better than ever.
Talk to your partner success representative to find the solutions that fit you.
Contact us today!
System Status
Linkedin
Youtube
Sign up for emails
GET IN TOUCH
ATPCO Headquarters
2340 Dulles Corner Blvd, Ste 800
Herndon, VA 20171
Regional offices
+1-703-661-7400
SOLUTIONS
Create offers
Ancillaries
Architect
Architect Query
Assembled Data
Branded Fares
Dynamic Offers
Express Contracts
FareManager
Price Elements
3Victors
Service & Settle Orders
Product Catalog
Distribute offers
APIs
NDC
Pricing & Shopping Subscriptions
Present offers
Routehappy
Routehappy Attributes
Routehappy Visuals
Modern Airline Retailing Attributes
COLLABORATION
Community Participation
Councils & Design teams
Standards
LEARNING
Blog
Glossary
Resources
Training
ABOUT
About us
Careers
Events
Press
Contact
Log in to MyATPCO
© Copyright
ATPCO. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
|
Compliance
|
Terms of Use
Cookie Notice!
We use cookies to improve your experience on our site. By using our site you consent to cookies. Read our
Privacy Policy
.
Got it!