S
TATE OF NEW YORK 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
                                                                                                                                                  
           
       LETITIA JAMES                                                                                       JANE M. AZIA 
 A TTORNEY GENERAL               BUREAU CHIEF 
                                                    CONSUMER FRAUDS & PROTECTION BUREAU 
 
January 8, 2026 
 
Chris Rogers 
Chief Executive Officer 
 
Morgan Fong 
General Counsel 
 
Maplebear Inc. d/b/a Instacart 
50 Beale Street, Suite 600 
San Francisco, CA 94105 
 
Re: Instacart’s Pricing Practices & New York’s Algorithmic Pricing Disclosure Act 
 
Dear Mr. Rogers and Mr. Fong: 
I write on behalf of the New York State Office of the Attorney General to  request 
information concerning recent reports of  substantial price variations among shoppers using 
Instacart, as well as your efforts to comply with New York’s Algorithmic Pricing Disclosure Act. 
According to a report from Groundwork Collaborative and Consumer Reports, 
released on December 9, 2025, shoppers using Instacart see significantly different prices  for the 
same products at the same stores.
1 Among the report’s observations, Instacart “offered as many as 
five different sales prices for the exact same grocery item, in the exact same store, at the exact 
same time,” with a 13% average price difference between highest and lowest  prices for a single 
good. Id. at 2. Furthermore, the researchers found that even when shoppers were offered the same 
sale price, there were significant variations in the “original price” shown and the discount applied 
to arrive at the sale price. Id. at 12. Instacart has promoted its Eversight “Retail Pricing Suite” that 
facilitates “revenue optimization” and “pricing solutions” that involve “ automated, continuous 
testing of … prices directly with shoppers.”
2 And Instacart has brought its pricing and promotions 
tools from the web into physical stores with the introduction of its proprietary Caper Cart “smart” 
 
1 Groundwork Collaborative & Consumer Reports, Same Cart, Different Price: Instacart’s Price Experiments Cost 
Families at Checkout (Dec. 9, 2025), available at https://groundworkcollaborative.org/work/instacart/. 
2 Instacart, Eversight by Instacart: AI-Powered Price Optimization, www.instacart.com/company/retailer-
platform/connected-stores/eversight ( accessed Jan. 8, 2026).

2 
 
 
28 LIBERTY STREET, NEW YORK, NY 10005 ● PHONE (212) 416-8300 ● FAX (212) 416-6003 ● WWW.AG.NY.GOV 
 
shopping cart , “ which provides three key capabilities: gamification, personalization, and 
advertising.”3 
In response to that report, Instacart acknowledged the existence of price variations 
and, while claiming that it had been randomly assigning customers to price-testing cohorts, stated 
that its retail partners “may use behavioral data … to inform discounts or promotional offers.” Id.  
at 13. When accomplished by means of an algorithm, the use of a consumer’s behavior and other 
personal data to inform the prices the consumer pays at checkout is  considered “personalized 
algorithmic pricing” and requires disclosure under New York law. 
On December 22, 2025, Instacart announced that, “effective immediately, Instacart 
is ending all item price tests on our platform. Retailers will no longer be able to use Eversight 
technology to run item price tests on Instacart.”
4 Instacart barely described the “item price tests” 
that it was planning to end, though it claimed those particular “tests were not dynamic pricing or 
surveillance pricing.” Id. Whatever the now-canceled tests entailed, Instacart acknowledged that 
its “[r]etail partners will continue to set their own prices on Instacart” and that Instacart will 
“continue offering relevant promotions, discounts, and marketing incentives – including those 
funded by CPG brands and retailers – as well as loyalty integrations, to help bring additional 
savings to customers.” Id. Following Instacart’s announcement, “ Instacart told [Consumer 
Reports] that it would still allow its partners—grocery retailers and food brands—to test different 
types of promotions and discounts on their customers through the platform.”5 
New York’s Algorithmic Pricing Disclosure Act, G.B.L § 349-A (the “Act”), which 
took effect on November 10, 2025, requires companies to disclose the use of personalized pricing 
algorithms when offering goods or services  to consumers in New York. The Act covers 
“personalized algorithmic pricing,” which is defined as “dynamic pricing set by an algorithm that 
uses personal data.” G.B.L. § 349-A(1)(f). The Act further defines “dynamic pricing” as “pricing 
that fluctuates dependent on conditions, and “personal data” as “ any data that identifies or could 
reasonably be linked, directly or indirectly, with a specific consumer or device .” G.B.L. 
§ 349-A(1)(d), (e). 
Under paragraph 2 of § 349-A: 
Any entity that sets the price of a specific good or service 
using personalized algorithmic pricing, and that directly or 
indirectly, advertises, promotes, labels or publishes a 
statement, display, image, offer or announcement of 
personalized algorithmic pricing to a consumer  in New 
York, using personal data specific to such consumer, shall  
 
3 IGA News, Why Smart Carts Are the Winning Technology Format for Independent Grocers  (Dec. 18, 2024), 
www.iga.com/insights/why-smart-carts-are-the-winning-technology-format-for-independent-grocers. 
4 Instacart, Ending Item Price Tests on Instacart (Dec. 22, 2025), www.instacart.com/company/updates/ending-item-
price-tests-on-instacart. 
5 Consumer Reports, Instacart Stops Pricing Tests on Its Platform Amid Outrage from Customers  (updated Dec. 23, 
2025), www.consumerreports.org/money/questionable-business-practices/instacart-stops-ai-pricing-experiments-
a1176475852/.

3 
 
 
28 LIBERTY STREET, NEW YORK, NY 10005 ● PHONE (212) 416-8300 ● FAX (212) 416-6003 ● WWW.AG.NY.GOV 
 
include with such statement, display, image, offer or 
announcement, a  clear and conspicuous disclosure that 
states: 
“THIS PRICE WAS SET BY AN ALGORITHM USING 
YOUR PERSONAL DATA”. 
Entities found to be in violation of the law may, after continuing to violate the Act 
following receipt of a cease-and-desist letter, be subject to injunctive and monetary relief. G.B.L. 
§ 349-A(4). 
We have some concerns about Instacart’s attempts to comply with the Act. Based 
on our observations, the Instacart platform provides the following disclosure on a page linked to 
certain retail stores’ front pages, accessed by clicking fine print text: “New York law requires the 
following disclosure because certain prices and/or fees may vary based on randomized tests, we 
use personal information (such as delivery address) to calculate fees, and we offer certain 
personalized incentives: this price was set by an algorithm using your personal data.”
6 This form 
of disclosure does not appear to comply with , among other things, the “clear and conspicuous” 
requirements of the Act.  Moreover, t here was no disclosure  on category pages listing product 
prices (e.g., Meat & Seafood) or on individual product pages displaying price, though a disclosure 
is required for all displays of price covered by the Act. 
In order to ensure compliance  with the Act, we request that you provide, by 
January 29, 2026, the following documents and information: 
1. All current agreements with the retailers Target, Stop & Shop, Wegmans, Best Buy, 
Key Food, Aldi, ShopRite, and Costco in any way concerning (a) the prices, 
discounts, offers, and promotions available for Instacart users  when purchasing 
from that retailer , including terms addressing  the setting of any markups or 
discounts, (b) any loyalty or rewards program of the retailer, including integration 
in the Instacart  and Eversight platform s and the setting of any prices, discounts, 
offers, or promotions in connection with the program, and ( c) th e use of the 
Eversight platform or Caper Cart system. If any such agreements were changed in 
connection with Instacart’s December 22 announcement that it was halting some  
price experiments, provide also the version effective prior to the announcement. 
 
2. All current agreements with the consumer packaged goods (CPG) brands Frito-Lay, 
Hormel Foods, Nabisco, Oscar Mayer, Pepsi, and Coca Cola in any way concerning 
(a) the prices, discounts, offers, and promotions available for Instacart users when 
purchasing those CPG brand’s products, including terms addressing the setting of 
any markups or discounts and, and (b) the use of the Eversight platform or Caper 
Cart system. If any such agreements were changed in connection with Instacart’s 
December 22 announcement that it was halting some price experiments, provide 
also the version effective prior to the announcement. 
 
6 The fine print text on the Instacart app that linked to the disclosure page was: for Stop & Shop, “View pricing 
policy”; for Wegmans, “Higher than in-store prices”; and for Costco, “Pricing & fees.”

4 
 
 
28 LIBERTY STREET, NEW YORK, NY 10005 ● PHONE (212) 416-8300 ● FAX (212) 416-6003 ● WWW.AG.NY.GOV 
 
 
3. A detailed description of the Eversight platform  and Caper Cart system  and how 
each is used, by Instacart or by retailers  and CPG brands  using the Instacart 
platform, to adjust prices  and promotions, including how consumer data may be 
used for pricing and promotions. 
 
4. A detailed description of all price experiments performed and being performed by 
Instacart and/or retailers or CPG brands  through Instacart ’s platforms and tools  
(including Eversight or Caper Cart), including (1) the starting and ending dates of 
the price experiments, (2) how customers were selected for price experimentation  
and how many customers were affected, (3) the variables that were adjusted as part 
of the price experiment (e.g., sale price, original price, discount , or promotion), 
(4) how those variables were adjusted, including whether customer data was used  
and how different values for different variables were assigned to different 
customers, and (5) the effect on total prices paid for products and baskets of 
products for individual affected consumers and all affected consumers as a group. 
 
5. A statement whether Instacart and/or retailers or CPG brands using Instacart ’s 
platforms and tools (including Eversight or Caper Cart)  use dynamic pricing or 
personalized algorithmic pricing (as defined in the Act)—including by fluctuating 
base prices or discounts, offers, or promotions affecting price — when offering 
goods or services to consumers in New York State; and if so, (a) the specific goods 
or services or categories subject to dynamic pricing or personalized algorithmic 
pricing, (b) a list of all conditions on which pricing fluctuations depend, identifying 
specifically all categories of personal data and personal data specific to a consumer, 
and (c) a brief description of how the pric ing is set by an “algorithm” (as defined 
in G.B.L. § 349-A(1)(a)). 
 
6. If Instacart and/or retailers or CPG brands using Instacart ’s platforms and tools 
(including Eversight or Caper Cart)  use personalized algorithmic pricing , an 
explanation of efforts to comply with the disclosure requirement of G.B.L. 
§ 349-A(2), accompanied by screenshots and screen -flows of consumer  
transactions from initial display  of price, discount, offer, promotion, or other 
pricing information, for relevant web pages and mobile apps (with accompanying 
links or directions to locate app interfaces).  
 
7. Other documents sufficient  to demonstrate the policies and practices Instacart is 
undertaking to comply with the provisions of the Act.

5 
Please send your responses to me by email at ryan.galisewski@ag.ny.gov or to my 
attention at 28 Liberty Street, New York, NY 10005 by January 29, 2026. We appreciate your 
cooperation and your efforts to comply with the new legal obligations discussed above. 
Ryan D. Galisewski 
Assistant Attorney General 
Bureau of Consumer Frauds and Protection 
ryan.galisewski@ag.ny.gov 
Tel: (212) 416-8341 
28 LIBERTY STREET, NEW YORK, NY 10005 • PHONE (212)416-8300 • FAX (212) 416-6003 • WWW.AG.NY.GOV