2025 Responsible Business Report

We are pleased to share the Kroger 
Family of Companies’ latest progress 
on sustainability and community 
engagement for the 2024 reporting 
period with our stakeholders.
Kroger’s Thriving Together strategy reflects how our 
company supports and serves our associates and 
customers every day, lifting up our neighbors and 
creating stronger communities. 
Our Responsible Business strategy includes a wide 
range of topics affecting people and our planet. 
Informed by a double materiality assessment and 
ongoing engagement with leaders inside and outside 
our company, these insights help shape our approach 
and progress as outlined in this report. 
Our Thriving Together strategy continues to evolve 
over time to complement and integrate with Kroger’s 
core business and go-to-market strategy. We believe 
a strong, thriving company means stronger, thriving 
communities wherever we operate. 
Strategic Oversight 
The Board of Directors oversees Kroger’s 
management approach to our Responsible 
Business strategy and key sustainability and 
social responsibility topics. A dedicated Public 
Responsibilities Committee of the Board—established 
in 1977—engages leaders and reviews progress on 
the company’s sustainability and social responsibility 
goals, including our Zero Hunger | Zero Waste plan.
Welcome to Our Report
2 Introduction
2 Welcome to Our Report
3 About Kroger
4 Our Business 
5 Key Highlights
6 Our Value Chain
7 Our Approach
8 Material Topics
10 Thriving Together Strategy   
11  Zero Hunger | Zero Waste Impact Plan
12  Zero Hunger | Zero Waste Progress
13 2024 Progress Highlights
14 Stakeholder Engagement
15 Recognition 
16 People
17 2024 Highlights
18 Our Associates  
24  Our Customers
28 Our Communities  
32 Planet
33 2024 Highlights
34 Climate Impact
38 Waste & Circularity
43  Biodiversity & Resource Conservation
47 Governance
48 Corporate Governance 
55  Responsible Supply Chain  
& Sourcing
60 Appendix
61 Key Performance Data Tables
65 Material Topics Summary
67 TCFD Index
68 SASB Index
70 2024 Supplemental Data Tables
71 Forward-Looking Statements
Contents
Kroger’s leadership team is accountable for 
implementing our Responsible Business strategy and 
driving performance to achieve goals. Sustainability 
and community engagement priorities are developed 
and managed by a centralized team, led by our group 
vice president of Communications & Public Affairs, who 
serves as chief sustainability officer, in collaboration 
with an internal network of business leaders and 
subject matter experts across many disciplines.
Report Scope
This report covers Kroger’s 2024 fiscal year from 
February 4, 2024, to February 1, 2025. Unless 
otherwise noted, data included in the report reflects 
this period. The report incorporates most of our 
operations, except for certain datasets related to 
integrating banners from mergers into our tracking 
systems. Where appropriate, we note the scope 
of specific performance tracking in the relevant 
report section.
Reporting Approach 
The content in this report reflects leading reporting 
practices with modifications, as previously noted and 
in the pages that follow. Our approach to defining 
content reflects insights from our most recent double 
materiality assessment. 
We continue to monitor developments in reporting 
standards and best practices. We provide a 
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) 
Index at the end of this report to provide additional 
disclosures in alignment with the SASB Food Retailers 
& Distributors Standard. 
We comply with applicable federal and state laws 
regarding relevant disclosures. We continue to align 
with the Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) and monitor developments in 
other emerging frameworks. 
PeopleOur Approach Planet AppendixGovernanceIntroduction
 22025 Kroger Responsible Business Report

Our Family of Companies
About Kroger
Honesty
We insist on truthfulness with each other, 
with our customers, with our vendors 
and in our business records. We expect 
and value openness.
Inclusion
We encourage and expect collaboration, 
teamwork and the active involvement of 
all associates. 
Integrity
We act in accordance with Our Values,  
even when it’s difficult.
Diversity
We seek and embrace differences in the 
backgrounds, cultures and ethnicities of  
all associates, customers and vendors. 
Safety
We protect our customers and each  
other from injury with a safe and secure 
workplace and shopping environment.
Respect
We treat all with dignity and value the 
opinions and perspectives of others.
In fulfilling Our Purpose—To Feed the Human 
Spirit™—we live by Kroger’ s long-standing Values:
MARKETING
Since Kroger’s earliest days, we have 
prioritized offering convenience and 
value to our customers. We remain 
focused on our purpose-driven plan to 
increase access to quality, affordable 
fresh food for everyone.
Our Values
PeopleOur Approach Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 3AppendixGovernanceIntroduction

Our Business
K = thousand  |  M = million  |  B = billion
$147.1B
total 2024 sales
2,731
grocery and multi-department  
stores in 35 states and the  
District of Columbia
distribution centers
33
Kroger-owned food 
production plants
63M
households  
served annually
8
Kroger Delivery 
fulfillment centers
409K43
associates company-wide
2,273
pharmacies
PeopleOur Approach Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 4AppendixGovernanceIntroduction

Key Highlights
900+
new Our Brands  products  
introduced in 2024
31%
increase in food waste recycling  
rate in stores, from 27% (2017) to 
58% (2024)
815M
pounds of surplus fresh food donated 
to our communities since 2017
$3.1B
in sourcing with diverse suppliers  
to expand product assortment for 
our customers
$2.6B
in charitable giving to our 
communities since 2017
3.9B
meals donated to 
our communities  
since 2017
100%
of retail stores  
actively donating  
surplus fresh food
Kroger makes grocery shopping easy, convenient and affordable for our customers every day. 
Dedicated associates across the country live Our Purpose and Zero Hunger | Zero Waste mission, 
giving back meaningfully to make a difference in our communities. 
-14.9%
cumulative reduction in 
Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse  
gas (GHG) emissions  
since 2018
$2.7B
in incremental wage  
investments for  
our associates  
since 2018
38
fishery improvement projects to 
improve seafood sustainability  
supported by Kroger in 2024
PeopleOur Approach Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 5AppendixGovernanceIntroduction

Our Value Chain Kroger serves our communities with a combination  
of local neighborhood grocery stores and online  
grocery solutions to meet our customers’ needs. 
Working with our vendors, suppliers and others, 
we aim to responsibly buy, make, move and sell
a wide range of food and other essentials for individuals 
and families on any budget. We focus on offering 
affordable products that meet our customers’ wide-
ranging tastes and preferences for quality food and 
household items. 
Our Supply Chain
Sourcing
We procure raw materials and ingredients 
for food production that meet food safety, 
quality and sustainability specifications; 
fresh items from farmers, fishers and 
other producers; and finished goods from 
manufacturers in our global supply chain. 
Kroger also manages indirect sourcing 
for the services, technology and supplies 
needed to run our business. We use 
a centralized team and Supplier Hub 
to manage supplier engagement and 
compliance with established policies. 
Manufacturing
We manufacture 31% of total Our Brands  
units sold at 33 Kroger-owned food 
production plants across the country. The 
remaining Our Brands  items are produced 
to our strict specifications by outside 
manufacturers. 
Our food production plants include 14  
dairies, nine deli or bakery plants, five 
grocery product plants, two beverage 
plants, one meat plant and two 
cheese plants.
We have five $1 billion+ brands in our 
portfolio: Kroger®, Private Selection®, 
Simple Truth®, Home Chef® and 
Bakery Fresh.
Distribution
A Kroger-operated fleet and third-party 
operators move our products from food 
production plants to warehouses for 
transport to our stores, or to dedicated 
fulfillment centers for delivery to our 
customers’ homes. Consumer packaged 
goods companies also deliver Our Brands  
products and national brand products to 
warehouses or directly to our stores. 
Our Brands  products play an important 
role in our merchandising strategy and 
represented over $32 billion in sales in 
2024. Our supermarkets, on average, 
stock over 12,000 private-label items. 
Retail
Customers shop with us at neighborhood 
stores and online through our digital 
platform that fulfills orders through 
curbside pickup and direct-to-home 
delivery through fulfillment centers and 
Instacart services.
In-store pharmacies and health clinics  
offer convenient access to medications, 
health services and dietitian support. 
We also operate 1,665 fuel centers and  
an expanding network of electric vehicle 
(EV) charging stations.
Households
Providing affordable, high-quality fresh 
food for more than 63 million households 
annually is Kroger’s highest priority. Our 
insights team at 84.51° combines customer 
transaction information and publicly 
available data to provide custom offers 
that drive higher-than-average redemption, 
loyalty and trust among shoppers.
We aim to provide easy ways for our 
customers to live healthier and more 
sustainable lifestyles. We seek customer 
feedback through in-store service counters, 
surveys, focus groups, websites and social 
media, as well as Kroger Customer Connect, 
our live call center.
Our Operations Our Customers
60K+
vendors and suppliers  
work with us
31%
of total Our Brands  units sold are 
manufactured by Kroger
13K+
private-label items in the  
Our Brands  portfolio
35 states 
+ District of Columbia
with Kroger-operated retail stores
$600
in weekly savings and digital offers  
for our customers
PeopleOur Approach Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 6AppendixGovernanceIntroduction

Our 
Approach
Kroger has a long history of operating 
responsibly and growing in ways that serve 
our associates, customers and communities. 
Today, Kroger’s operating model and 
Thriving Together Responsible Business 
strategy aim to advance positive impacts  
for people and our planet.  
In This Section 
8 Material Topics 
10 Thriving Together Strategy   
11  Zero Hunger | Zero Waste Impact Plan
12  Zero Hunger | Zero Waste Progress
13 2024 Progress Highlights 
14 Stakeholder Engagement
15 Recognition 
 
7
2025 Kroger Responsible Business ReportPeopleIntroduction Planet AppendixGovernanceOur Approach

Material Topics
Kroger’s Responsible Business 
strategy is informed by a 
comprehensive risk assessment 
completed in alignment with 
principles of double materiality. 
Valuable insights from this process 
and ongoing engagement with our 
internal and external stakeholders 
shape our future ambitions and 
public disclosures. 
Double Materiality Assessment  
Double materiality, the leading methodology for 
assessments, evaluates topics relevant to companies 
and is increasingly included in reporting guidelines and 
frameworks. This approach contemplates two different 
lenses through which material sustainability and social 
topics can be viewed and disclosed, including:
•  Outward impact:  The potential impact of a 
company’s activities on people, the environment 
and the economy. For example, managing GHG 
emissions has an impact on our planet. 
•  Inward impact: Topics or matters that may affect a 
company’s ability to operate and deliver business 
value in the future. For example, changing weather 
patterns and temperatures may pose potential risks  
to the company’s business operations over time. 
Kroger’s most recent formal materiality assessment 
—completed in 2023—aligned with the principles of 
double materiality.
Determining Material Topics
We determined relevant topics by reviewing the 
priorities of key stakeholders through ongoing dialogue, 
sustainability reports, sustainability ratings and rankings, 
reporting frameworks, industry reports, consumer 
surveys and media scans. The result was a list of 26 
topics identified for further assessment. We identified 
boundaries for each topic based on stakeholder 
expectations and our management practices.
To prioritize these topics and apply the Stakeholder 
Inclusiveness Principle outlined in the GRI Standards, 
consultant Environmental Resources Management 
(ERM) conducted in-depth interviews with 32 internal 
and external stakeholders. We invited approximately 
60 additional subject matter experts and stakeholders 
to complete a quantitative online survey. Based 
on these insights, we prioritized eight topics as 
most “material,” or foundational to our business or 
presenting higher levels of risk or opportunity.
High-priority topics were discussed and validated 
through a series of meetings with internal leaders 
and the Public Responsibilities Committee of the 
Board. The validated topics shaped the content of this 
report, detailing our management approach, goals 
and performance. Topic placement on the matrix and 
changes over time also may inform the company’s 
management approach. 
Topic prioritization
Topic ranking, summary report 
Double Materiality Assessment Process
Assess outward impact
Value chain mapping, external   
stakeholder engagement
Assess inward impact
Internal & external  
stakeholder engagement
Validation
Leadership engagement & review,  
validation workshop
Discovery
Source review, trends analysis,  
defined topic list
PeopleIntroduction Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 8AppendixGovernanceOur Approach

Local Communities
Data Privacy & Cybersecurity
Agricultural Practices
Talent Attraction, 
Engagement & Retention
Waste & Circularity
Food Waste
Food & Product 
Access & Affordability
Outward impact: Kroger’s impact on people and planet
Increasing importance to external stakeholders
Energy & GHG Emissions 
Food Safety
Responsible Supply Chain & Sourcing
Health & Nutrition
Labor Relations
Employee Health, Safety & Well-Being
Diversity & 
Inclusion
Human Rights
Water
Biodiversity & Conservation
Climate Change Resilience
Public Policy Practices
Animal Welfare
Marketing Practices 
& Product Labeling
Corporate Governance
Business Ethics & Compliance
Customer Experience
Non-Food 
Product Safety
Retail Security
Material Responsible Business Topics  
Tier 3
Tier 2
Tier 1
About the Results 
The output of the double materiality assessment can  
be characterized in a few main takeaways. Highest-
priority topics—in the Tier 1 segment in the matrix 
at right—extend across all three pillars of Kroger’s 
Thriving Together strategy: 
•  Topics affecting people: Food & product access & 
affordability; health & nutrition; and talent attraction, 
engagement & retention 
•  Topics affecting our planet:  Energy & GHG 
emissions, operational waste and food waste 
•  Governance topics: Food safety, data privacy 
& cybersecurity, and responsible supply chain 
& sourcing 
These findings generally align with the company’s 
strategic focus areas while providing additional 
validation and insights.
Many topics are complex and interconnected 
with potential impacts to both people and our 
planet. Some require a more integrated and cross-
functional management approach that balances 
insights and feedback from many stakeholders with 
different perspectives. 
Topic Placement 
The matrix represents the two types of impact 
associated with each topic. Topics are positioned on 
the matrix according to their relative degree of impact, 
which reflects both internal and external perspectives. 
A high rating on the X axis (inward impact) means a 
topic may pose a higher degree of risk or opportunity 
to Kroger and its ability to create value over time. A 
high rating on the Y axis (outward impact) means that 
Kroger’s business activities related to a topic may have 
a higher degree of impact on people and our planet.
Topics at the top right of the matrix have the highest 
degree of both types of impact and are strategically 
important. All topics on the matrix are important; 
however, these insights from both internal and 
external stakeholders inform and shape Kroger’s 
management approach, topic prioritization, potential 
investment of resources and public reporting.
Please see the Material Topics Summary table  in the 
Appendix for definitions and a link to the primary 
narrative discussion for each.
Inward impact: Impact of topics on Kroger 
Increasing importance to internal stakeholders
PeopleIntroduction Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 9AppendixGovernanceOur Approach

Climate Impact
We manage energy 
use and reduce GHG 
emissions in our own 
operations, and we 
collaborate with others 
to create a cleaner 
energy future and a 
healthier planet. 
Waste & Circularity
Kroger aims to minimize 
waste in our operations 
and achieve our zero 
waste ambition. We also 
focus on improving Our 
Brands packaging and 
encourage our customers 
to try more sustainable 
product options.
Biodiversity & Resource 
Conservation
We promote responsible 
land use and more 
sustainable production 
methods to protect 
pollinators, natural 
habitats, and life on 
land and in water. 
Planet
Our Associates
We value our associates 
because they are the 
foundation of our 
success. We create a 
brighter future for our 
associates by investing 
in wages, industry-
leading benefits and 
opportunities to learn, 
grow and succeed. 
Our Customers
 We make it easy for our 
customers to shop for 
fresh, quality, affordable 
food and other essentials. 
Investing in lower 
grocery prices, weekly 
promotions, personalized 
offers and rewards is 
a key part of Kroger’s 
business model.  
Our Communities
We strengthen our 
communities by offering 
access to employment 
and convenient ways 
to shop, and by giving 
back generously through 
Kroger’s Zero Hunger | 
Zero Waste impact plan 
to end hunger and waste. 
People
Our Purpose 
To Feed the Human Spirit
Our Brand Promise  
Fresh for Everyone™
Responsible Business  Strategy 
Thriving Together
Impact Plan
Thriving 
Together 
Strategy
We imagine a future where 
everyone is thriving together.  
We build stronger communities  
by growing our business, 
operating responsibly and 
advancing sustainability as  
we grow.
We manage a broad portfolio of material topics  
as part of our Responsible Business strategy, 
which focuses on advancing positive changes 
for people and our planet. 
Kroger’s purpose-driven Zero Hunger | 
Zero Waste impact plan sits at the center of 
our strategy and expresses our mission to 
end hunger and waste in our communities. 
We believe everyone should have access 
to affordable, healthy and sustainably 
produced food. 
We outline our primary focus areas for 
Zero Hunger | Zero Waste here, and we share 
our latest progress achieved during 2024 on 
the following pages. 
READ MORE ON PAGE 18 READ MORE ON PAGE 24 READ MORE ON PAGE 28 READ MORE ON PAGE 34 READ MORE ON PAGE 38 READ MORE ON PAGE 43
PeopleIntroduction Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 10AppendixGovernanceOur Approach

Affordable Fresh Food
Nourishing Our Communities
•  Offer low grocery prices and feature promotions 
on fresh, healthy food every day 
•  Increase food access through our eCommerce 
platform, available to virtually all customers, and 
make paying with food assistance benefits easy 
•  Offer affordable Boost by Kroger Plus 
membership options for more savings 
on groceries, grocery delivery fees and fuel 
•  Promote fresh, healthy items and offer nutritional 
scoring to improve health and well-being 
Food Rescue & Donations 
•  Use promotions and markdowns as food nears 
use-by dates to make it even more affordable and 
promote faster sale
•  Safely rescue remaining surplus fresh food for 
made-in-store items or for donation to local 
food agencies to improve food security in 
our communities 
Advocacy 
•  Support efforts to preserve and increase access 
to food and food assistance in our communities
Nourishing Meals
Stronger Communities 
•  Donate fresh food and charitable funds to help 
feed and nourish people in our communities 
•  Strategically direct charitable donations to 
support Zero Hunger | Zero Waste in ways that 
improve food security 
•  Support organizations and innovators helping 
increase access to affordable fresh food 
•  Invite customers to round up their purchase 
to the nearest dollar to benefit The Kroger Co. 
Zero Hunger | Zero Waste Foundation to help 
feed neighbors in need
New Solutions
•  Support innovation and pilots to test new ways 
to improve food security and health through 
the Zero Hunger | Zero Waste Foundation’s 
Innovation Fund
•  Fund capacity-building initiatives in our local 
communities to rescue more food and provide 
more meals 
•  Convene and join industry and other coalitions 
of action focused on ending hunger and waste 
Resource Conservation 
Climate Impact 
•  Reduce energy use, GHG emissions and waste in 
our operations for a cleaner, healthier planet
•  Recover and divert unsold organics and food not 
eligible for donation to keep it out of landfills  
•  Collaborate with others to reduce emissions from 
agricultural production and our supply chain 
Operational Waste & Food Waste
•  Improve how our facilities manage waste and 
recover more recyclables to keep more waste out 
of landfills 
•  Expand store and facility programs to recycle 
food scraps through animal feed, composting and 
anaerobic digestion
•  Scale food de-packaging solutions to make it 
easier for associates to recycle packaged foods
Product Sustainability
•  Work with suppliers to adopt more sustainable 
agricultural production methods that conserve 
resources and protect habitats and biodiversity
•  Support collaboration to improve sustainability 
among food producers, brands and retailers 
Zero Hunger | Zero Waste Impact Plan
Kroger’s Zero Hunger | Zero Waste 
impact plan sits at the center of 
our  Thriving Together strategy. 
It’s our mission to end hunger and 
waste in our communities and 
make sure more fresh, nutritious 
food achieves its highest purpose: 
feeding people. 
Our Zero Hunger | Zero Waste plan, introduced 
in 2017, addresses a fundamental absurdity in our 
food system: Collectively, we produce more than 
enough food to feed everyone today, yet 1 in 7 
Americans still struggle with hunger. We focus 
on advancing change through our core business 
and operating model, strategic charitable giving, 
and coalitions of action with our communities to 
improve food and nutrition security, now and in 
the future. 
Sustainability Stronger CommunitiesCore Grocery Business
PeopleIntroduction Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 11AppendixGovernanceOur Approach

119M 
pounds of surplus  
fresh food donated
We are grateful to countless community leaders, nonprofit 
organizations and innovators working with Kroger to achieve our 
mission. Together, we imagine a future without hunger and waste.  
Zero Hunger | Zero Waste Progress
Our Zero Hunger | Zero Waste impact plan is designed 
to advance positive changes wherever we operate. The 
persistent problems surrounding hunger and waste are 
complex and interconnected—at global, national and 
local levels. We continue to focus on improving our 
own operations and working with others in our value 
chain to drive greater positive impacts in our local 
communities and beyond. 
With more than 140 years of experience in the food 
business, Kroger is uniquely positioned to help solve 
this big problem. We focus on: 
•  Making it easy for more people to shop for fresh, 
affordable food
• Donating surplus fresh food to feed our neighbors
•  Reducing the amount of operational waste and retail 
food waste sent to landfills
• Reducing emissions for a healthier planet 
• Offering more sustainable Our Brands packaging 
•  Giving our customers easy ways to support our 
mission and live healthier lifestyles
Key Highlights
Every day, Kroger associates live Our Purpose by 
rescuing surplus food in our stores that can no 
longer be sold and donating it to local hunger relief 
organizations. Last year, our associates rescued 
and donated 119 million pounds of food company-
wide. Thanks to these efforts and charitable cash 
donations to hunger relief, we have donated nearly  
4 billion meals to our communities since 2017. 
Reducing wasted food in our communities is a big 
part of our Zero Hunger | Zero Waste plan. Surplus 
food that cannot be safely donated to feed people 
goes to food waste recycling programs like animal 
feed, composting or anaerobic digestion. Since 
2017, we have improved food waste diversion from 
landfills to 58%.
Reducing waste also means managing energy use, 
minimizing GHG emissions and improving  
Our Brands packaging to be more recyclable, 
reusable and compostable. 
For more about our Zero Hunger | Zero Waste 
impact plan , please see our website. 
2024 Highlights Progress Since 2017
$276M
in charitable giving to hunger  
relief organizations in our  
communities (food and funds) 
100%
of stores donating surplus  
fresh food to hunger relief agencies
3.9B 
meals donated to  
our communities
$1.8B
in charitable  
giving to  
end hunger
815M
pounds of surplus  
fresh food donated 
97%
of stores participating in food  
waste recycling programs
58%
retail food waste  
diversion from landfills
518M
meals donated to 
our communities
85%
operational waste 
diversion from landfill  
company-wide
PeopleIntroduction Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 12AppendixGovernanceOur Approach

Goals & Metrics 2024 Status
Social Responsibility
Food Access & Affordability
Introduce new quality affordable Our Brands products 900+
Annual meals donated to our communities—food and charitable donations 518M
Donate 3 billion meals to communities by 2025 (2017 baseline)—food and donations 3.9B meals
Food Rescue Donations
Donate surplus fresh food from stores and facilities to our communities through Kroger’s 
Zero Hunger | Zero Waste Food Rescue program 119M pounds
100% of retail stores actively donating surplus fresh food by 2025 100%
Charitable Giving
Total annual charitable giving to our communities $346M
Share of total charitable giving donated to national and local organizations helping end hunger $276M
2024 Progress Highlights
Goals & Metrics 2024 Status
Environmental Impact 
Climate Impact
Achieve a 30% cumulative reduction in Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions from 2018 baseline -14.9%  
Waste & Circularity
Achieve 90%+ waste diversion from landfill company-wide 85%
Reduce total food waste generated in retail stores by 50% cumulatively (2017 baseline) 4%
Achieve 95% diversion of remaining retail food waste from landfill 58%
95%+ of retail stores participating in food waste recycling programs 97%
Seek to achieve 100% recyclable, compostable and/or reusable Our Brands packaging 52%
Increase recycled content in packaging so Our Brands portfolio collectively contains 10%+ 10%
Biodiversity & Resource Conservation
Percentage of Seafood department products aligned with Kroger’s Seafood Sustainability Policy 97%+
Percentage of palm oil, beef, soy and paper volumes sourced for manufacturing plants and meat 
counter meeting no- or low-deforestation risk definitions 94%+
We recognize the unique role Kroger plays in the future of food. We aim 
to operate responsibly, live Our Purpose and fulfill our Zero Hunger | Zero 
Waste impact plan to advance positive changes for people and our planet. 
Additional details about these and other goals and metrics are shared in the 
People, Planet and Governance sections of this report.
People Planet
Status key Did not 
achieve On trackArea of focus Achieved Achieved ahead 
of schedule
Significant 
progress
PeopleIntroduction Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 13AppendixGovernanceOur Approach

Stakeholder Engagement 
Kroger has a large and diverse 
group of stakeholders, including 
individuals and groups who may be 
affected by our operations. These 
communities influence how we run 
our business and help guide how we 
develop our sustainability and social 
impact strategies. 
We proactively manage relationships to foster 
open dialogue and capture feedback from more 
than 70 organizations on over 30 topics related 
to responsibility and sustainability. While our 
approach to engagement varies by group, we 
prioritize topics based on our strengths, Thriving 
Together strategy, materiality assessment results 
and other risk-based analyses.
Key Stakeholders Primary Engagement Methods Engagement Outcomes 2024
Shareholders Kroger’s leaders, our Investor Relations team and other subject matter 
experts engage with shareholders throughout the year. Key channels 
include direct investor engagement, investor conferences, our annual 
shareholders’ meeting, quarterly earnings calls, financial reports, investor 
questionnaires about Responsible Business topics, www.thekrogerco.com, 
press releases and webcasts.
In 2024, under the direction of the Board, we requested engagement meetings with 33 
shareholders representing 61% of our outstanding shares and subsequently met with 21 
shareholders representing 24% of our outstanding shares (we met with many of those 
shareholders more than once). Some investors we contacted either did not respond or 
confirmed that a discussion was not needed at that time.
Non-Governmental 
Organizations (NGOs)
We engage many NGOs to share how Kroger approaches topics affecting 
people and our planet, including our Zero Hunger | Zero Waste impact 
plan. We welcome constructive and open dialogue with NGOs on a wide 
range of topics. 
Open and candid dialogue with NGOs helps shape how we manage the wide range of 
topics in our Responsible Business strategy. In 2024, feedback included topics related 
to agricultural food production and mitigating potential environmental risks to natural 
resources, wildlife habitats and biodiversity. These insights and others informed our 
approach to conducting both a climate scenario risk analysis and biodiversity risk 
assessment for our own operations and supply chain during 2025.
Associates &  
Labor Unions
We engage with Kroger associates in all locations where we operate. 
We use training, one-on-one discussions and coaching, our intranet, 
email, leadership meetings and town halls, affinity and inclusion groups, 
internal and external social media, and associate engagement surveys. 
We also communicate with local and international unions through 
scheduled meetings, telephone calls and ongoing collective bargaining 
agreement negotiations.
Our associates’ feedback through surveys and in-person dialogue informs decisions 
about programs and tools that improve their work experience. Last year, leaders 
developed and implemented action plans to address key insights, including requests 
for easier scheduling and information access. As a result, we introduced Sage, a new 
AI-powered virtual assistant that provides faster and easier access to HR-related 
information, including work schedules, pay stubs and requests for paid time off. 
Customers We offer customers many ways to engage with us, including in-store 
service counters, surveys, focus groups, websites and social media, as well 
as Kroger Customer Connect—our live call center.
Regular feedback from our customers and purchasing information informs decisions 
about product assortment at our neighborhood stores across the country. We aim to 
serve the unique needs of shoppers in the communities where we operate, including 
local and regional favorites, new Our Brands and national brand items, and items our 
customers request, where possible. 
Communities We foster close relationships with the neighborhoods in which we 
operate and listen to local and national organizations needing support 
to achieve mutual goals. Key channels include direct engagement, local 
giving and fundraising, service and volunteerism, weekly food donations, 
hunger relief, ongoing special events, store openings, media relations 
and more.
We stay connected with national and local nonprofit organizations in our communities 
in good and challenging times. In 2024, input from relief agencies and others shaped 
our response to natural disasters affecting our neighbors. As a result, Kroger donated 
more than $2.3 million in food and funds to aid in disaster relief and recovery efforts in 
California, Florida, Georgia, North Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and other communities. 
Suppliers & 
Manufacturers
Kroger’s engagement with our suppliers is a critical element of our 
commitment to responsible sourcing and supply chain accountability. We 
focus our engagement during the onboarding process and continue it 
through ongoing meetings, site visits, surveys and audits.
In 2024, we engaged our fresh produce vendors and growers to advance positive 
changes for people and our planet. This includes both encouraging growers to 
participate in the Ethical Charter Implementation Plan and enhance their management 
systems for respecting the rights of farmworkers and communicating our Nature-Based 
Goal to Protect Pollinators and Biodiversity to our suppliers. 
PeopleIntroduction Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 14AppendixGovernanceOur Approach

#27
Fortune 500 
Companies Ranked by 
Revenue 2025
#5
Newsweek 
Most Trustworthy Companies in  
America (Grocery & 
Convenience Stores) 2025
Handshake
Early Talent Award
for places to launch 
meaningful careers
2025
America’s Best 
Employers for 
Tech Workers
Kroger Pharmacies 
Forbes 
2024
Brandon Hall
Human Capital Management 
Excellence Gold Award
2024
#45
Barron’s
100 Most Sustainable  
U.S. Companies 
2025
Mental Health 
America
Gold Bell Seal  
for Workplace  
Mental Health
2025
Recognition
Disability:IN
Best Places to Work  
for Disability Inclusion 
6 consecutive years 
Computerworld
2025 Best Places to Work in IT
7th year
Progressive 
Grocer 
Impact Awards: 
Food Security & Nutritional 
Leadership 2024
#35
Axios Harris Poll 100
Reputation Rankings
2025
PeopleIntroduction Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 15AppendixGovernanceOur Approach

People
Food is at the heart of every community, and  
so is Kroger. We serve and strengthen the places  
we call home—for our associates and customers,  
for local businesses and farmers, and for towns  
and cities wanting to grow and thrive. 
In This Section 
17 2024 Highlights
18 Our Associates  
24  Our Customers
28 Our Communities  
Material Topics
•  Talent Attraction, Engagement & Retention  
•  Labor Relations
•  Diversity & Inclusion 
•  Employee Health, Safety & Well-Being 
•  Customer Experience
•  Health & Nutrition
•  Food & Product Access & Affordability 
•  Local Communities
16
2025 Kroger Responsible Business ReportOur ApproachIntroduction Planet AppendixGovernancePeople

$46M
in customer-directed  
Kroger Community  
Rewards for local  
nonprofit organizations
270K
associates participated in training and 
development programs to learn new skills  
900+ 
new affordable, quality Our  
Brands items introduced
People: 2024 Highlights
Related Resources 
ZERO HUNGER | ZERO WASTE
UPLIFTING OUR COMMUNITIES
KROGER HEALTH
$189M
invested in  
skill-building for  
our associates
$318M
incremental investment  
in our associates’ wages 
and benefits
At Kroger, Our Purpose is to Feed the Human Spirit. Our ambition extends 
far beyond the food and essentials we provide. We create brighter days and 
uplifting experiences for our associates, customers and communities, and we are 
a generous and trusted partner in the neighborhoods we serve and beyond.
$346M
in total charitable giving 
for our communities
518M 
meals donated for 
local hunger relief 
57K+
associates have been with Kroger 10 years  
or more
Our ApproachIntroduction Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 17AppendixGovernancePeople

Kroger offers jobs, skill-building and career opportunities for thousands of 
people in our communities every year. Many associates join for a part-time 
job and discover a fulfilling career at Kroger. We strive to hire people who 
reflect the communities we serve and create a respectful and welcoming 
work environment where everyone can thrive.
Our Associates
Our Approach
Kroger’s success and growth are possible because 
of our dedicated associates who choose to build 
their careers with us. They are the heartbeat of our 
stores, our distribution and fulfillment centers, our 
manufacturing plants and our offices. They are what 
make Kroger such a special place. Every day, our 
associates deliver fresh and friendly experiences for 
our customers, serve our communities and live Our 
Purpose. We continue to invest in ways that help them 
grow and learn with Kroger. 
Kroger’s chief associate experience officer leads 
efforts to support, inform and advocate for our 
associates by overseeing the company’s Associate 
Experience, Labor Relations, and Communications 
and Public Affairs teams. Guided by Our Purpose and 
Values, these teams—along with people champions 
across the business—focus on advancing our human 
capital management strategy to support individual and 
company success. We monitor and measure progress 
on key metrics and identify opportunities to increase 
associate engagement, well-being and belonging.
The Compensation and Talent Development 
Committee of the Board oversees progress on topics 
related to our associates’ experience. 
$64M
in Continuing Education 
Program tuition reimbursements 
to associates since 2018
64%
of our associates are covered by 
collective bargaining agreements  
negotiated with local unions
15
Associate Resource Groups  
to promote inclusion  
and belonging
Because of our unique business model, we help unlock 
economic opportunity for nearly half a million people 
of various ages and aspirations—from those seeking 
entry-level part-time jobs to graduate-degree specialists 
across corporate functions. In 2024, a total of 409,000 
associates were part of the Kroger family of companies.
Our People Strategy
We value and respect our associates, and we want 
to connect meaningfully with them throughout 
their employment journey, providing important 
opportunities to learn, grow and advance.
Kroger’s people strategy focuses on four priorities:
• Attract, develop and retain best-fit talent 
• Develop effective leaders
• Advocate for our associates’ well-being
• Create a high-performing culture
This strategy is designed to improve associate 
engagement, reduce turnover and develop a strong 
workforce. It requires a holistic approach, focusing on 
every stage of our associates’ journey from candidate 
to alumni, including the care they need to grow and 
the skill-building resources they need to deliver on our 
business strategies. 
This journey begins with a consistent and effective 
onboarding experience and continues through 
ongoing connections to support performance and 
yearly training and development focused on skills and 
capabilities for success. 
Investing in Our Associates
Kroger continues to invest in our associates—  
through wages, benefits, training, safety, well-being 
and more—because we know that when they have a  
better experience, our customers have a better 
experience too. 
A key component of these efforts is continually 
refining our competitive Total Rewards programs, 
which include compensation, healthcare benefits, 
retirement benefits and perks available to our 
associates, including those covered by collective 
bargaining agreements. We offer competitive pay and 
benefits in our stores, distribution centers, dedicated 
fulfillment centers, manufacturing plants, technology 
hubs and administrative offices.
Material Topics 
TALENT ATTRACTION, ENGAGEMENT & RETENTION
LABOR RELATIONS
DIVERSITY & INCLUSION  
EMPLOYEE HEALTH, SAFETY & WELL-BEING 
Nearly
$25.35/hour
average retail hourly wage including 
comprehensive benefits; nearly 
$19.50/hour without benefits
Our ApproachIntroduction Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 18AppendixGovernancePeople

In 2024, we invested an incremental $318 million  
in our associates’ wages, increasing average hourly 
wage rates. Since 2018, we have made a total of  
$2.7 billion in incremental wage investments, 
increasing wages by 38%. As a result, our average 
hourly wage is now nearly $19.50, and nearly $25.35 
including comprehensive benefits. We are committed 
to sustainably increasing associate wages over time in 
ways that support our business model and preserve 
affordability for our customers. 
We offer high-quality healthcare coverage for our 
associates and their families. We listen to our associates 
and invest in healthcare benefits that they consider 
to be most meaningful, including comprehensive and 
affordable healthcare coverage with support for family 
members and domestic partners.
In 2024, we introduced Sage, a new AI-powered 
virtual assistant for our associates. Sage provides 
real-time access to scheduling information for Kroger 
leaders and associates so they can easily access 
work schedules, see pay stubs, request time off, 
review training information and more. Today, more 
than 68,000 associates actively use Sage to manage 
some associate experience-related interactions 
and questions. 
In early 2025, Kroger integrated our Fresh Start 
training application and Sage Virtual Assistant to make 
it even easier for associates to access training and for 
leaders to manage new hires’ onboarding and training.
More information about how Kroger supports our 
associates’ well-being.
Hiring & Engaging 
Associates
We offer every associate opportunities to develop 
skills and discover a rewarding career at Kroger. We 
provide accessible and flexible employment options 
for people of all ages and backgrounds, including 
candidates looking for a part-time job or building a 
fulfilling professional career. 
The Kroger Family of Companies aims to be an 
employer of choice in our communities and across the 
country, and we continue to adapt and improve how 
we attract and tap into sources of talent. This includes 
enhancing our recruiting systems and early talent 
pipeline. We know that for many associates, Kroger is 
their first job. 
In 2024, we added a recruiting module to our new 
MyInfo HR technology platform to enhance our talent 
attraction systems. With this added functionality, 
Kroger’s hiring and management teams have a new 
suite of tools to enhance the candidate experience and 
improve our time-to-hire and time-to-start metrics.
Gen Z accounts for a growing share of today’s 
workforce and tomorrow’s leaders, and Kroger 
continues to invest in our internship program and early 
talent pipeline. In 2024, we welcomed more than 450 
students who worked as interns and received on-the-
job learning opportunities. Kroger interns work on real 
projects and produce real results across all areas of 
the business, from store and supply chain operations 
to corporate functions. We continue to increase the 
number of interns in our program and extend it to all 
lines of business. 
Reflecting Our Communities
We hire and welcome new associates of all backgrounds 
in the neighborhoods we serve. This includes candidates 
like mature adults, military service veterans and those 
seeking employment reentry. We work with many 
other groups to recruit new talent, including veterans’ 
organizations and multicultural universities and colleges. 
We offer jobs that support the unique needs of our 
military veterans, service members transitioning from 
active duty and their families. In 2024, our Associate 
Experience team hosted hiring events so veterans 
and their families could learn more about career 
opportunities at Kroger. Candidates participated in 
one-on-one conversations about their interests to 
help match them to a wide range of career paths 
and opportunities. 
Kroger also further expanded our collaboration 
with justice-impacted organizations through our 
New Beginnings program, which includes all food 
processing plants, warehouses and fulfillment centers. 
Powered by collaboration with more than 75 trusted 
community partners, we help create second-chance 
opportunities for certain individuals to start fresh and 
become financially stable through employment and 
access to benefits, depending on the role. In 2024, 
we welcomed more than 270 new associates to Day 1 
orientation through New Beginnings. 
Engaging Our People
Listening plays a critical role in our ability to retain 
and develop our associates. We gather feedback 
throughout the year in a variety of forms, including 
a company-wide Associate Insights Survey. Overall 
associate engagement has improved in recent 
years. The engagement score from our most recent 
full survey in 2023 was 57, an increase from the 
prior two years. Our next full survey is in 2025. 
Our survey results tell us that key drivers of 
engagement include: a sense of belonging, 
confidence in the future of the company, positive 
changes being made to address survey feedback, 
the company’s genuine interest in our associates’ 
well-being and having a friendly and caring place 
to work. 
While overall engagement has improved, we 
continue to listen and respond to our associates’ 
input. After reviewing company-wide and team 
results, leaders develop and implement site- and 
team-based action plans to address feedback 
on key themes, including associate belonging, 
overall well-being and supervisor effectiveness. In 
2024, we conducted pulse surveys instead of a full 
engagement survey to give leaders more time to 
develop and implement action plans to address our 
associates’ input.
We may conduct other pulse surveys throughout 
the year to check our progress, measure well-being 
and see how our associates are feeling. Based on 
these insights, we can offer additional resources 
for leaders and associates to respond to feedback 
more quickly. 
Our ApproachIntroduction Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 19AppendixGovernancePeople

Associate Resource Groups
To support our associates and foster inclusion, Kroger 
offers 15 Associate Resource Groups (ARGs), or affinity 
groups, with chapters across the country. These groups 
enable personal connections across the Kroger Family 
of Companies, facilitate shared experiences, encourage 
cross-ARG membership for awareness, and promote 
personal and professional growth. 
Kroger leaders sponsor the ARGs and personally 
engage with members, allies and other associates 
who are interested in learning more. All associates are 
welcome to join any of the ARGs to listen, learn and 
meet other associates. 
An ARG Steering Committee of diverse leaders helps 
review and establish consistent principles to advance 
associate engagement, professional development 
and community outreach, and to foster a sense 
of belonging. 
Improving Retention
Many associates come to Kroger for a first or part-
time job and discover a rewarding career. These first 
jobs form a strong foundation of real-world job skills 
and experience that serves our associates in any 
next job in store operations or across the business 
in Supply Chain, Technology, Finance or other 
corporate functions. 
Developing Associates 
& Leaders 
We aim to cultivate a culture of opportunity where 
everyone can thrive. This includes providing tools 
and resources to help our associates learn new skills, 
expand capabilities and grow their careers. 
Kroger offers a range of comprehensive training and 
development opportunities for all associates, from 
entry-level new hires to corporate and executive 
leaders. We support the learning, growth and 
development of our associates to build skills that  
serve them well at Kroger or elsewhere. In 2024, we 
invested $189 million in training for our associates 
company-wide. 
We continue to accelerate the use of our digital 
learning app Fresh Start for a better onboarding and 
learning experience. Fresh Start—available on shared 
company-owned technology or associates’ personal 
mobile devices—provides quick and effective training 
to frontline associates in an engaging format, helping 
them develop important skills, build confidence 
and more effectively serve our customers. This new 
platform makes new-hire onboarding easier and 
enables us to deliver training in the flow of associates’ 
everyday work. 
With Fresh Start and more traditional training 
modalities, we deliver a wide range of information to 
associates at all levels, including role-based training, 
leadership development opportunities, and courses 
on Our Purpose and Values, associate well-being 
and safety, service excellence, our Zero Hunger | 
Zero Waste impact plan and more. 
In 2024, we introduced several enhancements to the 
Fresh Start app, including new skills-based onboarding 
paths and digital quizzes to assess our new hires’ 
proficiency levels. We also launched new communication 
functionality to more easily share local division and 
facility news, tasks, recognition and other content. 
Continuing Education 
To help associates achieve their learning goals, 
we offer an industry-leading continuing education 
assistance benefit that provides up to $3,500 annually 
(and up to $21,000 over the course of a career). Today, 
nearly all part-time and full-time associates are eligible 
for this benefit after 60 days of service. In 2024, we 
expanded this program to interns with 120 days of 
service or more. 
Approximately 5,500 associates, 89% of whom are 
hourly, took advantage of the Continuing Education 
Program in 2024. Since inception in 2018, Kroger has 
invested over $64 million in tuition reimbursements. 
Effective Leaders 
Developing highly effective leaders is critical to 
Kroger’s overall associate and customer experience. 
We continue our positive momentum with strategies 
and initiatives that support our current leaders, retain 
talent, and develop strong and capable leaders to 
enable our future success. 
We build and strengthen our leaders’ capability and 
effectiveness through our Career Track Leadership 
Development framework. This framework outlines 
both leadership and technical development 
requirements so our people lead highly effective 
teams at every step of their career. We release 
new content each quarter with training, tools and 
resources to build key leadership skills. We want our 
leaders to have a deep sense of ownership in the 
business and passion to improve every day while 
keeping people at the heart of everything we do.
Associates tell us they value our Total Rewards 
programs, which include competitive wages, quality 
healthcare, retirement benefits, well-being resources 
and more. We believe investing in these programs 
enables associates to grow and thrive and improves 
retention over time. 
We aim to improve associate experiences at every 
stage of their time with us, from the hiring and 
pre-boarding process to onboarding, training, 
performance management and feedback experiences. 
We continue to enhance internal metrics to align 
teams at all levels, track our progress and improve 
common measures that affect retention, including time 
to hire, time to start, the onboarding experience and 
participation in user-friendly training modules.
Come for a Job, Discover a Career
Associates celebrating milestones in 2024
5+
10+
20+
30+
66,030
57,182
27,941
13,379
40+
50+
4,087
188
Years of Service
Our ApproachIntroduction Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 20AppendixGovernancePeople

We invest in our leaders’ development by:
•  Offering an extensive catalogue of on-demand and 
instructor-led development courses designed to 
support leaders at every career level
•  Conducting formal internal development programs 
and experiences 
•  Inviting leaders to participate in regional and 
industry development programs
We continually enhance role-based development 
programs for store department leaders, management 
trainees and district managers working across our 
retail divisions. Our comprehensive 15-week Store 
Management Training Program includes real-world 
store experiences, one-on-one coaching, virtual 
sessions and digital assessments to gauge proficiency 
and readiness. Our District Manager Development 
Program also helps associates in these critical roles 
build the people, financial and technical skills needed 
to be successful leaders.
Championing Performance  
We believe regular, meaningful feedback is critical to 
personal development and growth. To ensure associates 
receive timely coaching and conversations regarding 
their performance, we ask all managers to dedicate 
time and attention to coaching and developing team 
members. Through Kroger’s Ongoing Connections 
performance management approach, associates have 
regular performance and development conversations 
to set expectations, facilitate career development and 
discuss potential advancement over time. 
To learn more about our continued commitment to 
improving our associates’ experience, please visit the 
Kroger Careers page  on our website.
Labor Relations
Kroger respects our associates’ rights to form and join 
representative organizations of their own choosing. 
We do not prevent, retaliate or discriminate against 
workers choosing to associate with any group (or not) 
or bargain collectively (or not).
Collective bargaining agreements are a regular part 
of our business and cover many associate matters, 
including wages, healthcare and pensions. These 
contracts are regularly negotiated by Kroger’s team of 
labor negotiators who follow a consistent process and 
take a measured approach to each.
Approximately 64% of our associates are covered by 
collective bargaining agreements negotiated with 
local unions affiliated with one of several different 
international unions. There are approximately 350 such 
agreements, usually with three- to five-year terms.
In addition to wage investments noted earlier in 
this section, we invested more than $398 million 
in our associates’ multi-employer pension plans 
in 2024. Kroger also provides affordable, high-
quality healthcare benefits to eligible associates, 
investing $1.2 billion annually in their health and 
wellness benefits.
Our ApproachIntroduction Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 21AppendixGovernancePeople

Diversity & Inclusion 
Kroger’s long-standing Values have guided what we 
do for half a century. Two of these enduring Values 
are Diversity and Inclusion, which are embedded in 
our business through access and equal opportunity 
for everyone. We aim to create an environment of 
mutual respect for all people in every community we 
serve and to be a company where everyone has an 
equal opportunity to build a fulfilling career.
These Values also bring meaningful benefits 
to our business. When our associates reflect 
the communities we serve, they choose to stay 
with us longer and deliver a better customer 
experience. By offering a wide range of products 
from a variety of farms and suppliers, more 
customers choose to shop with our family of 
companies to nourish their families. 
We focus on creating welcoming places, offering 
equal access to opportunities and building thriving 
communities wherever we operate. 
Welcoming Places  
We aim to create a work environment for associates 
where everyone feels respected, appreciated and 
that they belong. We foster a sense of connection 
and belonging among our associates through team-
building, associate resource groups where all are 
welcome and more. We also create spaces to listen, 
talk openly and work together. 
Equal Opportunities
We strive to offer our associates equal access to 
opportunities for jobs, skill-building and engagement. 
We offer accessible employment for people across 
the country, and we offer opportunities for all 
associates to learn and grow. We value and reward 
associates who are friendly, dedicated and deliver 
measurable contributions to our business.
Thriving Communities 
We extend our focus on creating welcoming places 
and an environment of mutual respect to everyone in 
every community we serve. We feed our communities 
and give back meaningfully through Kroger’s Zero 
Hunger | Zero Waste plan. We offer friendly and 
engaging places to shop where customers can find 
the products they love. 
We also share opportunities for all potential suppliers 
to bid for Kroger’s business. We believe working with 
a variety of national and local suppliers helps expand 
our product assortment to meet our customers’ wide-
ranging needs. 
Learn more about our Supplier Inclusion Program .
Pay Equity
Kroger aims to offer fair and equal pay for all men, 
women and people of color. We review our associates’ 
total compensation on both an adjusted and 
unadjusted basis annually and publicly disclose results. 
See our Update on Pay Equity for details.
Please see the Workforce Overview at right for more 
information about our associates.  
2024 Workforce Overview
About Our Associates 1
 
Full time Part time Total
Women 84,646 113,977 198,623
Men 97,178 112,653 209,831
Total 181,824 226,630 408,454
 
2023 2024
White Women 27.9% 27.7%
Women of Color 21.2% 20.9%
White Men 28.9% 29.3%
Men of Color 22.1% 22.1%
Kroger offers accessible employment, opportunities to learn and grow, and a wide range of rewarding careers. 
We believe that by investing in our associates and being an employer of choice, we can deliver an outstanding 
customer experience every day, every time.
Reflecting Our Communities 
U.S.   
Population2
Kroger Operating 
Area Population3
Kroger 
Associates4 Totals 
White or Caucasian 58.0% 51.6% 57.8% 232,952
Hispanic or Latino 19.4% 22.9% 13.8% 54,437
Black or African American 11.9% 12.8% 16.0% 71,641
Asian or Asian American 5.7% 7.7% 3.9% 16,260
Other 5.0% 5.0% 8.5% 33,750
Diversity and Inclusion are among Our Values, and we aim to attract and retain diverse associates who reflect the 
demographic representation of our country and the neighborhoods we serve.
1. Totals provided for gender and ethnicity reflect our transition to a new workforce 
management system, in which associates are no longer required to specify or 
disclose gender or ethnicity 
2. 2023 U.S. Census Bureau population estimates 
3. 2023 U.S. Census Bureau population estimates
4. Kroger data as of fourth quarter of fiscal year 2024
Kroger publicly discloses our latest EEO-1 report on our Investor Relations site .
Our ApproachIntroduction Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 22AppendixGovernancePeople

Associate Health,  
Safety & Well-Being
Safety is one of Kroger’s long-standing values, and 
we believe managing personal health and safety is 
important to our company’s success.
Kroger’s senior leadership team and operating unit 
leaders are responsible for our management approach 
to associate health and safety, with additional oversight 
from the Public Responsibilities Committee of the 
Board. Business units and administrative functions 
follow an established approach to help protect 
associates’ health and safety.
OSHA Standards
Kroger follows established policies and standards  
to meet or exceed relevant Occupational Safety  
and Health Administration (OSHA) requirements, 
including comprehensive hazard communications 
and lockout/tagout plans, as well as guidelines for 
emergency evacuation, personal safety and personal 
protective equipment (PPE).
In 2024, Kroger improved our safety performance 
company-wide versus the prior year. Key metrics show 
improvement in company-wide OSHA reportable 
injuries, which declined 5.8%, driven by an 8.4% 
reduction in injuries in supermarket operations. Lost 
day rates improved for associates.
Safety measures are included in prioritized metrics 
for facility operations. We continue to deploy virtual, 
classroom and mobile training through our Fresh 
Start app for safety requirements to reach even more 
associates and provide reminders about safe work habits. 
Learn more about our safety performance .
Retail Stores 
In 2024, we continued to refine our company’s safety 
program—AllSafe!—for associates in Retail Operations, 
Fred Meyer Jewelers and Pharmacy Central Fill 
operations. The program is in its third year and is 
designed to increase associates’ awareness and 
attention to personal safety and well -being. 
AllSafe! is grounded in four principles:
• Nothing we do is worth risking injury
• Accidents can be prevented
• Safety will be managed
•  Safe behavior is a condition of employment for  
all associates
Kroger has detailed requirements and processes in 
place to minimize, review and address safety concerns 
in stores. Through clearly communicated expectations, 
routine monitoring, and regular safety behavior training 
and reinforcement, we continue to reduce the number 
of injuries and accidents in our stores. We provide PPE 
for associates where appropriate, and we require store 
leaders to conduct a thorough PPE assessment at least 
annually to verify it is available and in use. 
Any accidents are reported within 24 hours to determine 
the root cause. The AllSafe! Injury Review helps identify 
the root cause and accelerates the process to ensure 
any hazards are identified and addressed quickly 
and efficiently. Dedicated on-site safety teams meet 
routinely to review recent injury root causes and safety 
audit results, and to resolve any issues. 
Think AllSafe! 
In 2024, Think AllSafe! launched for all retail stores. 
Think AllSafe! is a web-based platform that houses 
store-related OSHA training courses to promote 
safety, including: 
• Bloodborne Pathogens Safety Plans
• Emergency Plans and Procedures
• Hazard Communications (chemical safety) 
• Hazardous Energy Lockout/Tagout Safety Plans 
• Heat Illness Prevention 
•  Powered Industrial Truck Safety (safe 
forklift operations) 
• Wildfire Safety Plans 
Think AllSafe! enables stores to use a digital entry 
and tracking system to manage OSHA compliance. 
The platform offers greater visibility to store 
compliance and makes it easier to provide required 
information during OSHA inspections.
Supply Chain
Leaders focus on measures to improve associates’ 
health and safety at Kroger-operated food 
processing facilities, distribution centers and 
dedicated fulfillment centers, as well as in transit 
between locations. We extended an existing 
program for our manufacturing facilities with Safety 
in Motion®, Inc. to support Kroger’s integrated 
Supply Chain function.
Kroger expects third-party contractors supporting 
supply chain operations to uphold the same level 
of worker health and safety standards. With the 
expansion of Kroger Delivery, we developed 
additional training resources to help keep 
associates safe in our fulfillment centers and on 
the road.
Supporting Well-Being 
To enable our associates to thrive, we take a holistic 
approach to well-being, aiming to deliver experiences 
that support and enhance their life, mind and body. We 
also offer resources that enable managers to create a 
supportive environment within their teams. 
Decisions to refine and expand the range of well-being 
initiatives reflect our associates’ feedback. During the 
past three years, we expanded access to mental health 
providers for company healthcare plan participants and 
created easy-to-navigate guides to available resources, 
including self-help apps, confidential counseling, family 
support services, fitness discounts and more. An online 
benefits guide offers associates a one-stop shop for all 
well-being resources. 
Kroger received Gold in the 2025 Bell Seal for 
Workplace Mental Health. This program recognizes 
Kroger as an employer that creates a mentally healthy 
workplace for our associates through culture, benefits, 
compliance and wellness programs for the fourth 
consecutive year.
To promote financial well-being, our financial coaching 
benefit through Fidelity Investments is available 
to virtually all associates, including frontline hourly 
associates. This first-of-its-kind, one-on-one coaching 
program provides free confidential coaching to help 
associates navigate a variety of financial topics. 
Kroger associates have access to free, 
confidential counseling 24 hours a day, 
seven days a week, through Magellan 
Health. Services generally include short-
term counseling and referrals for associates 
and their household members who might be 
dealing with stress, anxiety, depression, grief, 
relationship challenges and more.
Our ApproachIntroduction Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 23AppendixGovernancePeople

Our neighborhood stores are welcoming places where shoppers see friendly faces, 
stock up on affordable essentials, grab meals on the go, find nourishing food and 
medications to improve health, and so much more.
Our Customers
Our Approach
Kroger is in the meal solution business, and we know 
many families feel overwhelmed and are looking for 
help. We work to solve “What’s for dinner?” for our 
customers by making meals easier, fresher and more 
affordable. When meals are a problem to solve, 
families come to Kroger for the answer.
Keeping our prices low is the foundation of our 
strategy. Lower prices attract more loyal customers 
who help us grow our business. This allows us to 
reinvest in even lower prices, an ever-improving 
shopping experience, and higher wages for 
our associates. 
Our focus on operational excellence means 
our customers can enjoy value, selection and 
convenience. We make it easy and affordable for 
more customers to shop with us anytime, anywhere. 
Kroger’s approach to serving our customers is 
shared across lines of business and corporate 
functions, including Retail Operations, Merchandising, 
Marketing, Sourcing, Supply Chain, eCommerce, and 
Communications & Public Affairs. The company’s 
senior leadership team and Board of Directors 
provide additional oversight. 
63M 
total households 
served annually
Customer Experience
Kroger’s brand promise—Fresh For Everyone—
expresses our commitment to bringing affordable 
fresh food to more people in neighborhoods across 
the country. Today, we serve more than 63 million 
households annually through convenient local stores 
and online shopping with Kroger Pickup and Delivery, 
plus valuable rewards and membership options. 
In 2024, we helped customers save through affordable 
products and promotions, including loyalty discounts, 
relevant offers and fuel rewards, as well as through 
Our Brands  products, which are priced well below 
national brands at equal or greater quality.
Fresh in Focus
Our customers prioritize fresh when they shop. Kroger 
has long been a leader in affordable fresh produce and 
proteins, including expanding access to natural and 
organic options many years ago. 
We want customers to trust the quality and freshness 
of every item they purchase. To do this, we have 
strong relationships with regional and local farmers 
and suppliers, enabling Kroger to source the freshest 
products. We expanded the Our Brands  portfolio to 
include Field and Vine™, which offers regionally grown 
berries picked at peak freshness. 
We are also changing the way we bring fresh to life in 
our stores. In 2024, we completed the rollout of our 
End-to-End Fresh initiative to all stores, enhancing 
operational processes to give our customers more 
days of freshness in homes. End-to-End Fresh uses 
technology to improve the in-store shopping as 
well as order pickup and delivery options. Sourcing 
more locally grown products also increases days of 
freshness in our customers’ homes and reduces waste. 
Our Technology and Supply Chain teams continue to 
work together to develop new ways to add even more 
days of freshness to our products. From optimizing 
delivery routes to simplifying our associates’ tasks, we 
want to ensure our customers can buy food at peak 
freshness and trust those items will remain fresh in 
their homes. 
We consider efforts to advance food and product 
safety and quality for our customers as foundational 
to our business. Read more about our approach to 
food safety. 
Material Topics 
CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE 
FOOD & PRODUCT ACCESS & AFFORDABILITY
HEALTH & NUTRITION
$13B 
in digital sales in 2024
370+ 
new fresh items introduced  
in Our Brands portfolio
23K 
healthcare providers in  
Kroger Family of Pharmacies &  
The Little Clinic® locations
Our ApproachIntroduction Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 24AppendixGovernancePeople

Approach to eCommerce
Expanding our online grocery shopping, pickup 
and delivery solutions means more people in our 
communities have access to fresh, affordable food. 
Today, our customers can place orders and get their 
groceries when and where they want them, including 
pickup services at more than 2,300 stores, Kroger 
Delivery in select geographies, and delivery in as soon 
as one hour from approximately 2,600 stores through 
third-party services. Nearly all of our customers have 
access to our Pickup and Delivery services. 
In 2024, digital sales increased to more than $13 billion, 
and the number of households engaging with Kroger 
digitally increased 11% versus the prior year.
Boost Membership 
To provide an easier way to save for our loyal 
customers, we developed and introduced Boost by 
Kroger Plus, the industry’s most affordable grocery 
delivery membership program. Available in two 
plans, Boost Essential ($69/yr) and Boost ($99/yr), 
members receive unlimited free delivery on orders 
of $35 or more, 2X Fuel Points on groceries and 
general merchandise through Delivery, Pickup and 
in stores, exclusive member offers, and streaming 
on us with Disney+ (with ads), Hulu (with ads) 
or ESPN+. 
We estimate that Boost memberships can save 
customers more than $1,100 per year on grocery 
delivery, fuel and streaming fees. Restrictions 
apply; please see more details online. 
Affordable Fresh Food
At Kroger, our customers do not have to choose 
between a good meal and a good deal. That means 
customers can get the products they need, want 
and love for their families with clear savings right 
at the shelf. In addition to our everyday low prices, 
Kroger simplified promotions and lowered prices 
on thousands of items from summer essentials to 
most-loved staples. With Kroger’s Fresh & Quality 
Guarantees, customers never have to compromise 
high quality for low prices.
We connect with our customers through low prices, 
Our Brands , special promotions and relevant offers 
that make cooking at home easier. We have a long 
history of successfully serving more customers 
as we grow by lowering prices, investing in the 
shopping experience and expanding our selection of 
fresh, affordable food. 
In 2025, we lowered prices on thousands of additional 
products to help our customers stretch their grocery 
budgets even further. 
In addition to everyday promotions and discounts, 
our combined paper and digital coupons help our 
customers save on their purchases. Kroger also makes 
it easy for customers to pay online through Electronic 
Benefits Transfer (EBT) for the Supplemental 
Nutrition Access Program (SNAP) and the Special 
Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants 
and Children (WIC), removing additional barriers to 
food access like store location and transportation. 
Kroger continues to invest in lower prices to make 
shopping on a budget easier and more affordable for 
our customers. 
Special Markdowns 
We have programs in place to discount imperfect 
but still safe-to-eat fresh items in stores to make 
them even more affordable. This includes our 
popular produce “redbags,” which are bundles of 
discounted fresh produce items like apples, bananas 
and oranges. 
We offer markdowns on fresh items across our 
stores every day. In 2024, we continued to test 
dynamic markdown processes to improve how 
and when we discount fresh produce and other 
short-dated items. For online shoppers, the Kroger 
Delivery team offers a “flash sale” feature that 
highlights high-inventory items every day, giving 
customers special discounts and even more savings.
Our Brands 
Kroger’s popular and affordable Our Brands  have a 
leading position among brands in the U.S., and our 
customers tell us the quality of Our Brands  is a key 
factor in delivering a better shopping experience. 
We have five billion-dollar brands—Kroger®, Private 
Selection®, Simple Truth®, Home Chef® and Bakery 
Fresh—and more than 13,000  exclusive, quality-
guaranteed items that families know they can trust.
In 2024, we focused on refreshing our Kroger®, 
Private Selection® and Simple Truth® lines, as well as 
expanding our opening-price-point brand known as 
Smart Way® and our Hispanic-inspired brand known 
as Mercado®. 
In all, we launched more than 900 new, unique  
Our Brands  products in 2024, including over 370 
fresh items. The Kroger team actively monitors 
food trends throughout the year to understand 
what our customers are craving and ensure we have 
those items on our shelves. We aim to bring every 
customer the high-quality, affordable products they 
love—from pantry staples and fresh foods to ready-
to-heat, restaurant-quality meals. 
Kroger continually introduces new and reformulated 
products for our customers. During the first quarter 
of 2025, Our Brands  introduced more than 260 
new items. 
Loyalty & Rewards 
More than 60 million households are enrolled in our 
popular Kroger Plus loyalty program. Membership 
unlocks special lower prices, fuel discounts, exclusive 
digital offers and the chance to direct a portion of 
the company’s charitable giving to local nonprofit 
organizations through Kroger Community Rewards. 
We carefully measure how we serve our customers 
by analyzing detailed sales, loyalty, operations 
and customer satisfaction metrics. Kroger receives 
positive feedback from our customers about our 
loyalty program and rewards. Satisfaction surveys 
and purchasing insights also inform improvements in 
service, product quality and item assortment. 
Our ApproachIntroduction Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 25AppendixGovernancePeople

Health & Nutrition 
Access to affordable, nutritious foods, whether fresh, 
frozen or shelf-stable, and convenient health services 
are essential to our customers’ well-being. We recognize 
that healthy food can nourish individuals, slow the 
progression of illness and transform entire families and 
neighborhoods. 
That’s why we’re committed to advancing nutrition and 
health through our core grocery operations, the Kroger 
Health business and more. From providing products and 
services to engaging with customers and communities, 
we help expand access to healthy and nutritious food 
that supports healthier lives. 
Our approach to health and nutrition spans multiple 
areas of our business, from Merchandising and Retail 
Operations to Kroger Health, eCommerce and Marketing. 
We aim to make healthy living easier for our customers, 
both in-store and online, through relevant products, 
expert guidance from our dietitians and health services 
provided by our pharmacies and The Little Clinic®.  
Kroger Health leads the strategy behind our work to 
expand access to care in the communities we serve. 
A team of 23,000 healthcare practitioners, including 
pharmacists, nurse practitioners, dietitians and 
technicians, serves more than 17 million patients annually. 
They are available to patients every day to address health 
needs. From dietary counseling to questions about 
medications, patients can find expert, convenient care 
right in their neighborhood store or online. 
Our senior leadership team and the Public 
Responsibilities Committee of the Board oversee 
progress on our health and nutrition programs, as well as 
pharmacy and clinic safety measures. 
Eating for Better Health
At Kroger Health, we believe in eating for better 
health, meaning that healthy food has the power 
to nourish families and improve health. Based on 
insights, experience and the latest research, we 
know a thoughtful, balanced approach to eating and 
enjoying food promotes healthier lives and may help 
prevent illness before it starts. 
In May 2025, Kroger Health hosted its first 
Nourishing Change Conference in Cincinnati—an 
inclusive, cross-sector summit focused on the future 
of health and well-being in America. This event 
reflects our ambition to improve healthcare delivery, 
promote eating for better health and live our brand 
promise: Fresh for Everyone. 
The Nourishing Change conference brought together 
experts from retail, consumer packaged goods, 
healthcare, technology and policy to discuss a new 
path forward led by innovation, access and equity.  
Participants joined curated tracks focused on food 
and nutrition security, healthy eating and integrative 
care. Panel discussions highlighted the evolving role 
of retail solutions in healthcare, the intersection of 
pharmacy and wellness, and the power of behavioral 
science in driving better outcomes. 
As part of Kroger’s commitment to innovation, 
the event also featured an emerging brands 
competition, showcasing the next generation of 
health-forward products and services.
Nutrition Insights & Personalization
During the past year, Kroger Health introduced ways 
to help customers make more-informed nutrition 
decisions through our OptUP® Program. 
We recognize that making healthy food choices 
can be challenging, so we developed the OptUP 
Program to simplify choosing nourishing foods while 
shopping and to create access to registered dietitian 
nutritionists (RDNs). The FoodHealth Score, powered 
by the FoodHealth Company, rates food items from 1 
to 100 based on nutrient density and ingredient quality 
as part of the OptUP Program. The more nutritious 
the food, the higher the nutrition score. The scoring 
system, which seeks to give customers a fast, reliable 
way to evaluate the healthfulness of their food, can 
be used while customers shop online or scan UPC 
codes in-store. Kroger loyalty members can access 
their Nutrition Insights, helping them understand the 
healthfulness of their grocery purchases and shopping 
habits over time. 
We improve nutrition security through other products 
and services, including our virtual nutrition counseling 
service, which offers two-way video chat appointments 
with Kroger Health registered dietitians available to 
customers across the U.S. 
In early 2025, Kroger Health committed to expanding 
access to registered dietitians by launching a free 
30-minute 1:1 virtual nutrition coaching session 
available to all Kroger Plus loyalty members. The 
new offering provides personalized guidance from a 
registered dietitian on topics such as budget-friendly 
meal planning, product recommendations and practical 
nutrition tips. By making credible, customized nutrition 
support accessible at no cost, Kroger is helping 
individuals and families make lasting, positive changes 
to their health and well-being, all in a convenient, 
accessible format. 
Together, these innovations reflect Kroger’s 
commitment to making healthy living easier and more 
accessible for everyone. 
Kroger’s OptUP Program helps customers choose nutritious options. Shoppers can easily find better options by checking 
FoodHealth Scores, which reflect a food’s ingredients and nutrition facts, on the Kroger app or online.
Our ApproachIntroduction Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 26AppendixGovernancePeople

Of students participating in the program:
• 89% reported being able to identify signs of   
 prescription medication misuse and abuse
• 88% were confident in their ability to refuse the  
 offer of prescription drugs
•  90% confirmed they understand the 
consequences of sharing, selling and misuse of 
prescription drugs
To further reduce prescription medication misuse, 
Kroger Health, Cardinal Health Foundation and 
local police stations typically host drug take-back 
events twice a year at pharmacy locations across 
the country. Since the program started in 2016, it 
has resulted in the collection and proper disposal of 
220,000 pounds of medications and served more 
than 86,000 visitors across 22 states.
Access to Vaccines 
Kroger Health plays a vital role in promoting public 
health by offering convenient access to vaccines 
that help prevent the spread of respiratory illnesses 
such as the flu, RSV and COVID-19. With our 
Family of Pharmacies and Little Clinics open seven 
days a week, Kroger provides both walk-in and 
appointment-based services, making immunizations 
accessible to the people we serve.
To expand our reach, we offer healthcare solutions 
to meet people where they are. Our team is available 
to offer on-site health and vaccine clinics for local 
businesses, schools and organizations, further 
demonstrating our commitment to helping keep our 
communities safe and healthy.
Access to Health Services
We recognize that upstream factors like existing 
policies and legislation can affect equitable 
access to health services. We are working with 
policymakers to design and fund initiatives that 
increase patient access to more nutritious foods and 
expert nutrition advice while measuring outcomes 
to promote widespread adoption across our 
health ecosystem.
Kroger Health conducts federal advocacy efforts 
to promote policies that increase the accessibility 
and affordability of our healthcare services. Efforts 
include extending scope-of-practice laws and 
promoting new ways to help patients link better 
eating habits with improved health outcomes. 
In 2024, Kroger Health’s advocacy team secured 
a five-year extension of pharmacists’ authorities 
under the Public Readiness and Emergency 
Preparedness (PREP) Act. This enables seniors with 
Medicare coverage to continue accessing vaccines 
and certain testing and treatment options at 
pharmacy locations in our stores.  
Prescription Drug Awareness
Kroger Health also offers solutions to help customers 
manage medications safely at home. Kroger Health 
has been working with EVERFI on a Prescription Drug 
Safety Education curriculum for high school students 
since 2018. This curriculum focuses on raising 
awareness and encouraging students to make safe 
decisions around prescription medications. It helps 
students manage difficult situations and choices in 
high school and beyond. 
Our ApproachIntroduction Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 27AppendixGovernancePeople

As Kroger grows, our associates, customers and communities benefit. 
We continue to affirm and expand our long-standing commitment to 
operate responsibly, engage local leaders and give back meaningfully 
to our communities. 
Our Communities
Our Approach
We challenge ourselves to create a stable, successful 
organization that will support our associates’ growth, 
improve our customers’ shopping experience and 
reflect the changing ways America eats. Our growth 
creates the best environment—now and in the future—
to bring lower prices and more choices to more 
people, help secure the future of stable union jobs and 
invest to help build stronger, thriving communities. 
We strive to be an essential part of our communities. 
Our stores are community hubs and gathering places 
where our associates and customers see neighbors, 
grab a quick meal, prepare for special celebrations, 
fill prescriptions, discover new items for their families 
and more. 
We build and strengthen community within each of 
our stores, in our neighborhoods, and in the towns 
and cities we call home. In many stores, we design 
welcoming spaces where people can gather and 
discover new foods and flavors together. 
Kroger’s centralized Communications and Public 
Affairs team oversees how we support and give back 
to our local communities. This team leads community 
engagement, charitable giving, and federal, state and 
local government relations. The Public Responsibilities 
Committee of the Board oversees this work.
Local Communities
Every town and city is unique, and we proactively 
engage local elected leaders, city administrators, 
chambers of commerce, business associations, 
nonprofit organizations and others to listen and 
learn about local opportunities and challenges and 
consider how Kroger might contribute. Our leaders 
often volunteer time and serve on local nonprofit 
organization boards and councils. 
Kroger’s open-door approach to community 
engagement includes sharing updates on our 
business, discussing community priorities, identifying 
opportunities for collaboration, advocating for policy 
changes and more. 
We follow key principles as a trusted business wherever 
we operate. These include: 
•  Understanding national and local issues of importance 
•  Fostering open dialogue with community leaders 
•  Offering easy ways for our associates, customers and 
students to support our Zero Hunger | Zero Waste 
impact plan
•  Participating in and volunteering to serve community 
and nonprofit organizations 
•  Directing charitable donations to local causes and 
programs, particularly those aligned to our Zero 
Hunger | Zero Waste plan
$2.6B
in charitable giving for our 
communities since 2017
Investing in Our Communities 
Kroger invests in initiatives and projects that 
advance our company’s growth and strengthen the 
communities where we live and work. We are making 
investments in both our brick-and-mortar stores and 
our eCommerce business. 
In 2025, we are building more new stores and 
managing more renovation projects than in the past 
five years combined. We are on track to deliver 30 
major store projects in our communities in 2025. 
We expect to increase store openings by 30% in 
2026 with more efficient store layouts and faster 
construction timelines.
We believe offering a combination of stores that are 
fun to shop in and convenient delivery options is the 
best way to bring more affordable fresh food to more 
people across the country. We continue to invest in 
improving the shopping experience and introducing 
new mobile features that give customers more choices 
in when and how they receive their groceries.
As Kroger grows, our communities benefit. Our capital 
investments often create local jobs, such as our Kroger 
Delivery fulfillment centers, temporary construction jobs 
and growth in service industries supporting our new 
stores and facilities. New jobs mean new opportunities 
for our associates and greater positive economic impact 
in the local communities we serve. 
$3.1B
in spend with verified  
diverse-owned suppliers  
in 2024
$44M
in giving to the USO for active-duty 
military service members  
& families since 2010
Material Topic 
LOCAL COMMUNITIES
64K
students volunteering in 
communities to support        
Zero Hunger |  Zero Waste 
$46M
in customer-directed 
Kroger Community 
Rewards for local nonprofit 
organizations in 2024
Our ApproachIntroduction Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 28AppendixGovernancePeople

Disaster Relief 
Our customers and communities know they can 
count on Kroger in their time of need. As an essential 
business, our teams track and prepare for storms 
throughout the year, routing trucks to warehouses 
and stores so our customers can stock up on critical 
supplies, and staging generators and other equipment 
to move in quickly, restore power and open stores 
if needed. 
In 2024, Kroger provided more than $2.3 million 
in disaster relief funds and in-kind food donations, 
including a $500,000 grant to the American Red 
Cross Annual Disaster Giving Program to help the 
organization prepare for disasters and respond with 
care and comfort when they happen. We also often 
support Feeding America food banks with cash 
and food donations to help affected or displaced 
individuals and families. 
Last year, Kroger assisted communities in Texas after 
severe flooding; helped communities in Florida, North 
Carolina, Tennessee and Georgia after Hurricanes 
Helene and Milton; and supported local relief efforts 
after devastating wildfires in Southern California.
In situations where the National Guard is deployed 
to provide disaster relief, we may also work with 
the United Service Organizations (USO) to deploy 
a USO | Kroger Mobile Canteen to help feed 
first responders. 
During the 2024–25 school year, more than 17,500 
students across the U.S. earned recognition as youth 
Zero Heroes. These students completed nearly 
128,000 hours of service in 631 local communities 
across the country. Last year, we also honored 117 
youth Zero Heroes at 40+ hours of service. Since the 
program began, student participation has increased 
every year, totaling more than 429,500 hours since 
2019. InnerView estimates the value of this total 
positive community impact is $15.2 million. 
Youth Advisory Council
During the 2024–25 academic year, Kroger created a 
15-member Youth Advisory Council of student leaders 
who were willing to connect and discuss issues in their 
communities related to food security, waste reduction, 
recycling and more. Each student participated in 
Kroger-led collaborative sessions with guest speakers 
and design challenges to create Zero Hunger | Zero 
Waste-aligned community projects, supported by 
charitable micro-grants from Kroger. This was the 
third consecutive year that the Youth Advisory Council 
engaged in Zero Hunger | Zero Waste initiatives.
Kroger’s Zero Heroes youth program is offered to all 
students ages 14 to 24 in the United States. Learn more 
about the InnerView platform at www.innerview.org .
More information about Zero Hunger | Zero Waste is 
available here. 
Zero Hunger | Zero Waste
Kroger regularly engages our associates, customers 
and communities to advance our Zero Hunger | Zero 
Waste impact plan. We work closely with hundreds of 
national and local nonprofit organizations that help 
rescue surplus food from our stores and provide meals 
for neighbors in need. 
Every year, we also recognize Kroger store teams 
and individual associates who generously serve our 
communities. Nineteen associates were recently 
named Community Service Award recipients in honor 
of their volunteer service to advance Zero Hunger | 
Zero Waste in 2024. Kroger directed a donation to 
each awardee’s nonprofit hunger relief or sustainability 
organization of choice to express our gratitude. 
Please see our associate Community Service Award  
Winners for 2024 .
Youth Zero Heroes
We also encourage students to get involved in 
programs that end hunger and waste in their local 
communities. Six years ago, we introduced a Zero 
Hunger | Zero Waste youth engagement program in 
collaboration with InnerView, a leading platform to 
empower student volunteers. The program continues 
to grow every year. 
Through our Zero Heroes program, high school 
students serve local nonprofit organizations and earn 
recognition for different levels of service: at least 
eight, 20 or 40 hours. They also develop a personal 
community service résumé detailing their work to use 
in college or job applications. Sample activities include 
volunteering at a local soup kitchen, packing meals 
at a food bank, organizing a food drive or starting a 
school recycling program. 
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024
4,914
7,259
9,042
10,555
14,656
17,554
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024
231
361
439
545 561
631
37,000
68,900 71,000
81,500
107,175
127,862
250%+ increase
in Students Taking Action  
for Zero Hunger | Zero Waste
631
Local Communities with  
Youth Zero Heroes in 2024
Nearly 500K
Youth Volunteer Hours Supporting  
Zero Hunger | Zero Waste
18,000
0
3,000
6,000
12,000
15,000
9,000
600
150K
800
25K
0
0
200
50K
400
100K
125K
75K
Our ApproachIntroduction Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 29AppendixGovernancePeople

Charitable Giving 
Kroger has a long history of giving back generously 
to our communities. We support national and local 
nonprofit organizations by donating food and funds to 
help our neighbors and neighborhoods. 
In 2024, Kroger donated a total of $346 million to our 
communities in food and funds combined, including 
$276 million to hunger relief. Our strategic approach 
to charitable giving includes several ways we support 
national partners and local communities: 
•  In-kind food and product donations to advance 
Zero Hunger | Zero Waste 
•  Company-funded donations to nonprofit 
organizations that meet our Charitable 
Giving Guidelines  
•  Grants from The Kroger Co. Foundation, the 
company’s private foundation established in 1987
•  Grants from The Kroger Co. Zero Hunger | 
Zero Waste Foundation, a nonprofit public charity 
established in 2018 
•  Local customer-directed donations to nonprofit 
organizations through Kroger Community Rewards 
We align the majority of the company’s charitable 
giving to national, regional and local organizations 
and programs that feed people. In 2024, we directed a 
total of 518 million meals to our communities, bringing 
our cumulative total to 3.9 billion meals since 2017. 
This includes work with local food banks and pantries 
to support innovative food delivery models, including 
mobile or stationary food pantries that increase access 
to fresh food. 
We maintain long-standing relationships with national 
organizations that support our local communities. 
These include the American Red Cross, Feeding 
America and its network of affiliated local food banks, 
World Wildlife Fund and the USO, among others.
Prioritizing Hunger Relief
Several years ago, we began aligning more of Kroger’s 
total charitable giving to our Zero Hunger | Zero Waste 
impact plan. This includes cash donations and gift 
cards, foundation grants, surplus fresh food donations 
through our Zero Hunger | Zero Waste Food Rescue 
program, and other food and product donations. 
At the local level, our charitable dollars help Feeding 
America-affiliated food banks and other nonprofit 
organizations build capacity to pick up more surplus 
fresh food from our stores, test and implement new 
food recovery and delivery models, and feed more 
people in need. 
In addition to company donations, we invite our 
customers to round up their purchase to the nearest 
dollar when they shop with Kroger or donate directly to 
the Zero Hunger | Zero Waste Foundation to support 
our mission to end hunger and waste. Funds help 
provide grants to eligible organizations aligned with 
our impact plan. 
In 2024, our generous customers donated a total of 
$8 million to the Zero Hunger | Zero Waste Foundation, 
which directed grants to designated local food banks 
and hunger relief agencies. 
For more details on the work of our nonprofit 
foundations and examples of specific grants, please 
see The Kroger Co. Foundation 2025 Report  and  
The Kroger Co. Zero Hunger | Zero Waste Foundation  
2025 Report.
Donating Surplus Food 
Every day, associates across our family of companies 
recover and donate surplus fresh food for our 
communities through our Zero Hunger | Zero Waste 
Food Rescue program. Kroger developed and 
introduced this industry-leading program in 
collaboration with Feeding America more than 16 years 
ago, then called the Perishable Donations Partnership. 
Every Kroger-operated store is linked to a local hunger 
relief agency with the capacity to safely pick up 
and redistribute surplus fresh food. Our distribution 
centers, fulfillment centers and food production plants 
also donate surplus food when possible. 
We work closely with the Feeding America network 
of food banks and other hunger relief partners to 
continually improve our Food Rescue program, expand 
the number of items eligible for donation and recover 
more fresh, nutritious food. 
In 2024, 100% of our stores actively participated in 
the Food Rescue program. Including surplus food 
recovered from all facilities company-wide, Kroger 
donated a total of 119 million pounds of surplus food 
for our communities. Since 2017, our associates have 
donated nearly 815 million pounds of surplus food for 
our neighbors. 
For more information about Kroger’s Food Rescue 
program and how donating fresh surplus food feeds 
people and supports our sustainability goals, see the 
Waste & Circularity section of this report.
3.9B
meals donated  
since 2017
Made possible  
through a  
combination of:
$1.8B 
in charitable monetary donations to 
food banks and other hunger relief 
agencies in our local communities 
815M 
pounds of surplus  
food donated to 
our communities
Our ApproachIntroduction Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 30AppendixGovernancePeople

Through these mobile canteens, the USO provides 
temporary access to nutritious food, strengthening our 
service members and their families and offering warm, 
comforting meals in remote locations where troops are 
deployed. In 2024, the USO | Kroger Mobile Canteens 
hit the road to support over 42 military events and serve 
more than 37,000 people across the nation, including 
Family Days, Fleet Weeks, disaster relief services and 
training exercises.
Kroger Community Rewards
We give our customers an easy way to direct 
Kroger’s charitable donations to the local nonprofit 
organizations that matter most to them through Kroger 
Community Rewards. This program makes it easy for 
eligible nonprofit organizations of all sizes—including 
community schools, teams, churches, animal shelters 
and other groups—to raise money for their cause. 
Nearly 3 million loyal customers and thousands of local 
organizations are currently enrolled in Community 
Rewards. In 2024, Kroger donated a total of $46 million 
in company-funded Community Rewards to local 
nonprofit organizations in towns and cities across 
the country.
Supporting the Military 
Supporting service members and their families is 
a priority for our company. Kroger has contributed 
more than $44 million in support to the USO through 
corporate funds and customer donations during 
the past 15 years. We are recognized as the largest 
cumulative donor in the organization’s 84-year history. 
The USO | Kroger Mobile Canteen is a company-wide 
collaboration between the USO and Kroger. Working 
together, we developed a new way to extend the 
Mobile USO fleet with custom trucks and mobile 
canteens to deliver food and support to military 
communities that are currently underserved. Three 
USO | Kroger Mobile Canteens are stationed in Atlanta, 
Kansas City and Salt Lake City to serve military 
members and families when needed most. 
Total Charitable Giving by State: 2024
Food and Funds Donated to Our Communities 1
Funding Range
     Less than $1M      $1M–$5M      $5M–$15M      More than $15M
 1.  State charitable giving totals reflect Kroger’s support for our communities; company, foundation and in-store customer donations; and the value of surplus 
fresh food and in-kind product donations
Our ApproachIntroduction Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 31AppendixGovernancePeople

Planet
Kroger aims to do our part to protect natural resources 
and create a cleaner energy future. We focus on 
reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and waste 
in our operations, and we encourage our suppliers 
to adopt more sustainable ways to grow, make and 
package products for our customers. 
In This Section 
33 2024 Highlights
34 Climate Impact
38 Waste & Circularity
43  Biodiversity & Resource 
Conservation
Material Topics
•  Energy & GHG Emissions 
•  Climate Change Resilience
•  Waste & Circularity
•  Food Waste  
•  Biodiversity & Conservation 
•  Agricultural Practices 
•  Water 
32
2025 Kroger Responsible Business ReportPeopleOur ApproachIntroduction AppendixGovernancePlanet

26.5M
pounds of Fair Trade 
Certified™ ingredients 
sourced for  
Our Brands  products
Planet: 2024 Highlights
Related Resources 
NO-DEFORESTATION COMMITMENT: OUR BRANDS
 SEAFOOD SUSTAINABILITY POLICY
OUR BRANDS  SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING GOALS
85%
company-wide 
waste diversion 
from landfill 
Kroger’s Zero Hunger | Zero Waste impact plan expresses our ambition 
to reduce emissions, operational waste and food waste, and improve 
Our Brands packaging sustainability. We also encourage our suppliers 
to protect natural resources, habitats and wildlife on land and in water. 
2,298
retail stores use infrared refrigerant leak 
detection technology
58%
of retail store food 
waste diverted 
from landfill
97%+
alignment of Seafood  
department volumes  
with each seafood  
sustainability goal element
97%
of stores with 
food waste recycling 
programs
94%+
alignment of palm oil,  
beef, soy and paper 
volumes sourced for 
manufacturing plants  
and meat counter with  
no- or low-deforestation 
risk definitions
-14.9%
cumulative reduction in  
Scope 1 and 2 GHG 
emissions since 2018
PeopleOur ApproachIntroduction
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 33AppendixGovernancePlanet

16K+
stand-alone refrigerant cases 
using propane refrigerant
Just as changing temperatures and weather patterns may affect our business 
operations and supply chain, energy sourcing and GHG emissions from 
our operations may affect our planet. That’s why we evaluate and manage 
the company’s resilience to climate change and take steps to transition our 
operations to cleaner, more sustainable energy systems.
Climate Impact
Goal: 30% 
reduction in Scope 1 and 2 GHG  
emissions by 2030
Energy & GHG Emissions
Kroger’s senior leadership team and Public 
Responsibilities Committee of the Board oversee our 
approach to managing climate impacts and resilience. 
Multiple internal teams across our lines of business 
work together to establish and achieve goals, including 
Retail Operations, Supply Chain, Manufacturing, 
Sourcing, Finance and Communications & 
Public Affairs.
Our strategy to reduce the company’s impacts on the 
environment includes the goals we set, the actions we 
take to achieve our goals and our assessment of related 
risks and opportunities. We put this strategy into action 
when our business units identify emissions-reduction 
opportunities, when we pilot new technologies to 
understand if and how they will benefit us, and when our 
teams develop the operational policies, roadmaps and 
financial plans to reduce our emissions over time. 
Additionally, Kroger monitors and responds to a 
changing climate—such as changing temperatures 
and weather patterns—to maintain our ability to 
operate and serve our customers. We also consider 
how new technology, consumer trends and regulatory 
requirements may present risk or opportunity for 
our business.
Emissions Disclosure
In 2024, Kroger’s Scope 1 and 2 (market-based) GHG 
emissions decreased by 3.3%, which represents a 14.9% 
cumulative reduction since the 2018 goal baseline. 
By focusing on improving our data management and 
calculation accuracy, we are laying the foundation for 
future mandated disclosures. In fact, we completed the 
a full Scope 3 GHG emissions inventory for 2024 and 
plan to do so annually moving forward.
Material Topics 
ENERGY & GHG EMISSIONS 
CLIMATE CHANGE RESILIENCE
140
stores with 
EV charging 
stations
MTCO2e = metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent
Total GHG Emissions
Scope 1 and 2 emissions, market-based—MTCO 2e
2018
2019
2020
2021
5,774,060 (baseline)
5,967,865
5,275,845
5,251,448
2022
2023
4,894,705 
5,081,613
2025
all new stores using 
CO2-refrigerant systems
A portfolio of representative projects from across  
our business that are needed to achieve our current 
GHG reduction goal of 30% by 2030 was presented  
in our initial GHG Reduction Goal Roadmap . We 
continue to revisit our approach to reflect changes  
in decarbonization activities over time, the latest 
learnings from active pilots and possible 
future projects. 
Emissions-reduction projects include:
•  Reducing our reliance on electricity through 
operational efficiencies
•  Reducing refrigerant emissions by minimizing 
leaks and using lower-global warming potential 
(GWP) refrigerants
• Transitioning to EVs in our fleet
• Piloting new on-site solar installations
• Purchasing green power from our utilities
•  Realizing the benefits of grid-greening (passive 
procurement) in our emissions factors over time
We consider each GHG reduction opportunity in the 
context of possible impacts to our business, including 
emissions, costs and capacity to do the work. 
2024 4,916,373 (-14.9% from baseline)
PeopleOur ApproachIntroduction
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 34AppendixGovernancePlanet

Emissions Category MTCO2e Year-Over-Year 
Change (%) 
Scope 1 total emissions 2,240,536 -2.1%
Scope 1 (stationary) 563,167 +2.0%
Scope 1 (mobile) 348,347 -6.2%
Scope 1 (refrigerant emissions) 1,329,023 -2.6%
Scope 2, location-based (purchased electricity) 2,709,318 -1.1%
Scope 2, market-based (purchased electricity) 2,675,836 -4.2%
Total (S1 + S2 location-based) 4,949,855 -1.6%
Total (S1 + S2 market-based) 4,916,373 -3.3%
Scope 3 (complete)1 110,249,834 –
2024 GHG Emissions Footprint—MTCO 2e
1.  Scope 3 emissions reflect all relevant Scope 3 emissions. A detailed breakdown is shown in the table to the right. Because we have updated our calculation methodology 
for our Purchased Goods & Services emissions and due to a time gap between our 2021 baseline and this 2024 emissions footprint, we are not sharing year-over-year 
performance trends
Scope 1 emissions decreased by 2.1% in the 2024 
reporting year. Stationary emissions, most notably 
natural gas, increased due to consumption patterns. 
Mobile emissions decreased slightly, reflecting 
various fluctuations in miles run and fuel used in 
our Delivery, distribution and technician fleets. 
Refrigerant emissions declined, reflecting our focus 
on shifting to lower-GWP refrigerants in our stores 
and the continued rollout of improved leak detection 
monitoring technology. 
Scope 2 emissions decreased in the reporting year: 
Location-based emissions decreased by 1.1% while 
market-based emissions decreased by 4.2%. This change 
was driven by a reduction in electricity consumption as 
well as minor adjustments to emissions factors, including 
using supplier-specific emissions factors.
Normalized Scope 1 and 2 emissions (per 1,000 square 
feet) decreased from 23.82 in 2023 to 20.60 in 2024, 
reflecting these operational changes.
Scope 3 emissions reported for 2024 include all 
categories relevant to Kroger. Due to updates to our 
calculation methodology and an extended time period 
since we calculated our 2021 baseline, we are not 
reporting on year-over-year trends for Scope 3.  
As we reported for our 2021 baseline, there are two major 
emissions categories in Kroger’s value chain: upstream 
Purchased Goods & Services (PG&S) emissions, which 
include both Energy & Industry (E&I) and Forest, Land 
and Agriculture (FLAG) emissions, and downstream 
Use of Sold Products. Collectively, these two categories 
make up approximately 90% of our total Scope 3 
GHG emissions.
PG&S emissions reflect a broad array of activities in 
our supply chain, from the processing and distribution 
of ingredients, packaging and finished products to the 
technology used in our operations, legal and consulting 
services, on-farm activities in our agricultural supply 
chains and more. 
For the 2024 inventory, we updated our calculation 
methodology for PG&S emissions to reflect supplier-
specific emissions factors captured from third-party 
sources for top suppliers. Improving the consistency and 
quality of PG&S emissions will remain a focus moving 
forward as industry groups and companies seek more 
standardized metrics and methods.
Downstream, emissions from Use of Sold Products 
result from fossil fuels and fossil fuel-powered 
equipment sold in our operations, most notably from 
our fuel centers. The End-of-Life Treatment of Sold 
Products category primarily reflects estimates for 
the food waste and packaging in products that our 
customers buy, use and dispose. 
Kroger uses the GHG Protocol methodology to 
calculate our GHG emissions. More detailed disclosure 
is provided in our CDP Climate disclosures and in the 
Appendix of this report. 
Scope 3 Emissions Category MTCO2e Percent of total 
Upstream
1 Purchased Goods & Services—Energy & Industry (E&I) 42,459,735 38.5%
1 Purchased Goods & Services—Forest, Land & Agriculture (FLAG) 18,255,616 16.6%
2 Capital Goods 583,108 0.5%
3 Fuel & Energy Emissions 761,194 0.7%
4 Upstream Transportation & Distribution 2,053,859 1.9%
5 Waste from Operations 345,837 0.3%
6 Business Travel 27,952 0%
7 Employee Commuting 597,923 0.5%
Downstream
10 Processing of Sold Products 5,286 0%
11 Use of Sold Products 40,775,781 37.0 %
12 End-of-Life Treatment of Sold Products 4,348,119 3.9%
15 Investments 35,424 0%
Total 110,249,834 100%
2024 Scope 3 GHG Emissions Details—MTCO 2e 
PeopleOur ApproachIntroduction
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 35AppendixGovernancePlanet

Energy Efficiency
In 2024, we continued implementing projects that 
reduce energy consumption in our stores. We placed 
glass doors on open refrigerated cases in our stores, 
saving an average of 225,000 kilowatt-hours (kWh) of 
electricity and 16,000 therms of natural gas per store 
annually. We also transitioned multiple areas of our 
stores to new or more efficient LED lighting, including 
overhead lighting (35,000 kWh saved per store), 
parking lot lighting (100,000 kWh saved per store), 
open medium-temperature cases (10,000 kWh saved 
per store) and track lighting in Produce departments 
(23,000 kWh saved per store). 
Renewable Energy
Kroger currently has solar arrays installed at 14 
facilities, which generated 3.2 million kWh of renewable 
power in 2024. Of that, Kroger claimed 1.7 million kWh 
as zero-carbon energy in our GHG emissions inventory. 
We also operate two facilities equipped with anaerobic 
digestion technology, which processes food waste or 
food production by-products into biogas, which in turn 
can be converted to renewable electricity. 
In 2024, Kroger purchased 48,600 megawatt-hours 
(MWh) of zero-carbon power from our energy 
providers. This is a decline from the prior year due to 
changing contract opportunities and factors in our 
portfolio. This year, Kroger began procuring renewable 
energy from a new installation located at the 
Cincinnati Zoo & Botanical Gardens’ 30-MW solar farm 
on its Bowyer Farm property outside of Cincinnati.
Kroger also accounts for the increasing amount of 
lower-carbon and renewable electricity generation 
sources coming online in different regions in our 
GHG inventory. 
Refrigerant Emissions Reductions
During the last decade, we have continued to 
transition away from ozone-depleting substances to 
other refrigerants across our systems. In our stores, 
we use a four-pronged approach to managing 
refrigerant emissions: 
•  Proactively monitoring, mitigating and 
reducing leaks 
•  Replacing aging refrigeration systems to 
improve energy efficiency and reduce refrigerant 
charge/emissions 
•  Properly managing refrigerant inventory 
to reduce waste and promote responsible 
reclaim practices 
•  Transitioning to refrigerants with a lower GWP. 
Kroger is part of the U.S. Environmental Protection 
Agency’s (EPA) GreenChill program, through which 
we set annual targets to reduce refrigerant emissions 
in retail stores 
Kroger’s Refrigerant Management Policy  for our 
stores outlines the company’s procedures and 
documentation for all refrigerant gas handling. 
Kroger has a zero-tolerance leak-rate policy, and all 
relevant associates and technicians must read, sign 
and adhere to it. In 2024, the refrigerant leak rate in 
our stores improved from 11.4% to 11.1%.
We are actively transitioning stores to use new infrared 
detectors that identify lower concentrations of leaked 
refrigerants. By the end of 2024, we had transitioned 
2,298 stores to this new technology and expect to 
transition 100% of stores by the end of 2026. 
In addition, we transition facilities to lower-GWP 
refrigerants, including in California to achieve the 
necessary portfolio GWP in relevant stores by or 
before state regulatory guidelines. We also operate 
and maintain our company-wide refrigeration 
fleet in anticipation of refrigerant supply changes 
resulting from the federal American Innovation and 
Manufacturing Act.
In 2024, we built six new retail stores with CO 2 
refrigerant technology to evaluate and inform the 
future rollout of this technology in our stores. Moving 
forward, we aim to build all new stores with CO 2 
refrigerant systems. 
In addition, we are transitioning to propane 
refrigerant, which has lower GWP, in all stand-alone 
refrigerated cases in stores. More than 16,000 existing 
units use propane today, and all new stand-alone 
cases will use propane moving forward.
In general, we plan to use lower-GWP refrigerants that 
are commercially and financially viable, which includes 
evaluating whether new refrigerants can be dropped 
into an existing system or whether a new system 
is required.
Kroger continues to track emerging refrigeration 
technologies and is an active member of the North 
American Sustainable Refrigeration Council, which 
aims to help retailers overcome barriers to the 
adoption of natural refrigerants.
Emissions-Reduction Goals
Kroger’s goal is to reduce Scope 1 and 2 GHG 
emissions from our operations by 30% by 2030, from 
a 2018 baseline. The goal was developed using climate 
science, supporting a well-below 2°C climate scenario 
according to the absolute contraction method. Our 
Facility Engineering, Sourcing and Supply Chain teams 
have been diligently implementing energy efficiency, 
renewable energy and refrigerant emissions-reduction 
programs to address operations emissions.
In 2024, we completed two years of work with a 
consulting partner to assess the feasibility of setting 
a GHG reduction goal aligned with the requirements 
of the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi). Our 
extensive analysis established our first complete 
Scope 3 GHG emissions inventory; refreshed our initial 
Scope 1 and 2 GHG reduction roadmap for 2030 to 
reflect the latest developments; and reviewed SBTi 
requirements for Scopes 1, 2 and 3 on specific time 
horizons to determine how they could affect Kroger’s 
operations and financials.
Ultimately, we learned that the detailed SBTi framework 
and target-setting requirements for validation are 
challenging for our business as a retailer to achieve in a 
way that is sustainable and enables future growth. As a 
result, we are maintaining Kroger’s ambition to achieve 
our Scope 1 and 2 goal and continue reducing GHG 
emissions beyond 2030. 
PeopleOur ApproachIntroduction
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 36AppendixGovernancePlanet

Mobile Efficiency & Electrification
We continue to refresh our truck fleet, replacing older 
vehicles with more fuel-efficient models. In 2024, 
we replaced more than 70 trucks with new units. 
As a long-time partner of the U.S. EPA SmartWay 
program, we aim to reduce truck miles and emissions 
through dynamic routing, truck speed limits, automatic 
shutdown for truck idling and automatic transmissions 
to manage gear splits.
During the past several years, we converted all new 
refrigerated trucks in California serving our Ralphs and 
Food 4 Less divisions to hybrid electric/diesel trailers. 
Our Monroe, OH, fulfillment center (FC) uses electric 
Kroger Delivery vans. We use electric yard tractors at 
three facilities and received our first two on-highway 
electric tractors in 2025. 
As of the end of 2024, Kroger had installed EV 
charging at 140 stores in the following states: Arizona, 
California, Colorado, Georgia, Indiana, Maryland, 
Michigan, North Carolina, Nevada, New Mexico, Ohio, 
Oregon, South Carolina, Virginia, Washington and 
Wyoming. Our infrastructure includes several direct 
current super-fast chargers capable of generating 
350kW—several times more power than typical fast 
chargers—to offer convenient charging services to 
our customers. 
Since 2020, EV chargers installed at our stores have 
provided over 38 million kWh of electricity to local 
consumers through 1.6 million charging sessions.
Climate Change 
Resilience
As a responsible business, we continually evaluate 
the resilience of our facilities and operations amid 
changing temperatures and weather so we can 
continue to serve our customers well into the future. 
Kroger’s management approach to climate resilience 
includes conducting a quantitative climate risk 
assessment to determine the likelihood of different 
physical climate risks affecting our operations, such 
as drought, extreme heat or extreme precipitation. 
We assessed risk at representative facilities in 
different geographies to determine whether future 
impacts could potentially increase operating costs 
for these facilities.
We used climate modeling in three scenarios 
reflecting different Representative Concentration 
Pathways (RCPs): median under 2°C (cool RCP 4.5 
models); 2°C to 4°C (warm RCP 4.5 models); and over 
4°C (RCP 8.5 models). These were taken from the 
1/16th degree localized constructive analogs (LOCA) 
climate dataset for 2030 and 2050 timeframes.
For each physical climate risk, we also identified 
potential financial impacts. We recognize the 
limitations of these metrics to capture the potential 
long-term financial impacts of climate risks; however, 
they provide important context. Working with 
a third-party consultant, we concluded that the 
physical risks modeled do not pose a substantive 
financial threat to our operations. 
We will revisit this analysis periodically and plan to 
expand it to include a climate risk assessment using 
scenario modeling for select parts of our supply 
chain during the remainder of 2025.
To prepare for and manage potential physical 
climate risks, including natural disasters and business 
disruptions to our supply chains, we maintain over 
200 business resilience plans. Kroger has also 
installed technologies and developed processes to 
enable our stores, plants and distribution network to 
respond quickly and remain operational to serve our 
customers and communities. 
We monitor energy availability and costs to help 
anticipate how changing climate patterns, such as 
increasing temperatures, could affect our future 
energy-sourcing costs and activities.
We also assess the transitional climate risks due 
to legislation regarding refrigerant use and the 
transition to lower-GWP refrigerants. As a result 
of state and federal requirements regarding 
the phasedown of hydrofluorocarbon (HFC) 
refrigerants, we anticipate steadily replacing 
refrigerant infrastructure across our store portfolio 
to reach required levels, which could incur 
additional costs. 
Kroger continues to monitor this evolving topic 
and engage subject matter experts and others 
to understand what is most important to our 
customers, communities and shareholders. 
PeopleOur ApproachIntroduction
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 37AppendixGovernancePlanet

We are moving toward more circular systems in our operations and in 
Our Brands product packaging to reduce the impact of waste on our planet. 
We focus on waste reduction, reuse and recycling opportunities to advance 
progress on our goals. 
Waste & Circularity
52%
percentage of Our Brands product 
packaging that is recyclable, reusable  
or compostable
2.7M
pieces of Our Brands  plastic  
packaging our customers sent  
to TerraCycle® for recycling  
since 2021
Our Approach
Leaders across our lines of business work collaboratively 
to reduce waste company-wide. Guided by our 
strategic approach to waste reduction and diversion, 
each supermarket division has an Expense, Sanitation 
and Sustainability Manager who implements programs 
with oversight from a centralized Retail Operations 
team. These division managers oversee waste diversion 
efforts, including operational waste recycling and food 
waste recycling. 
Retail store managers support the everyday execution 
of these programs to make sure we are making progress 
on our goals. Similarly, our Supply Chain team has 
sustainability leads who help guide waste reduction and 
waste recovery initiatives in these facilities.
We express our ambition through Kroger’s Zero  
Hunger | Zero Waste impact plan, aiming to achieve 
a 90%+ waste diversion rate across the company. We 
expect to continue increasing waste diversion from 
landfills through enhanced collaboration across our 
facilities, convenient food waste recycling programs 
and the expanding role of reusable plastic containers.
In 2024, our company-wide waste diversion rate 
improved to 85%, up from 82% a year ago. Total waste 
generated increased (regardless of destination); 
however, the amount of waste sent to landfills and 
waste-to-energy processing decreased as recycling 
and data quality improved. 
The total volume of food waste diverted from landfills 
improved by 17% in 2024. We saw year-over-year 
variation in waste volumes sent to different food 
waste recycling outlets, reflecting the expanding role 
of anaerobic digestion (AD) programs in our stores. 
Total annual food and non-food donations increased. 
In-store pharmacy teams piloted solutions to recycle 
stock pill bottles during 2024 and continue to expand 
this program to more locations in 2025. 
We continue to expand the use of reusable plastic 
containers (RPCs)—used to distribute produce, eggs, 
milk, meat and bread—to more functions and facilities 
to reduce the amount of waste generated. Since 2024, 
we grew the use of produce RPCs by more than half, 
and expect to double their use by the end of 2026.
To enhance responsible disposal practices, our 
Environmental Compliance team oversees processes 
for our stores to properly manage unsalable products, 
store-use chemicals and other products that have 
reached the end of their useful life. Licensed hazardous 
waste vendors collect materials from our sites for 
appropriate disposal, reuse, recycling or destruction in 
full compliance with applicable regulations.
Engaging Our Associates
Kroger’s associates help achieve our Zero Hunger | 
Zero Waste mission by implementing store and supply 
chain facility programs every day to reduce waste. 
Our Zero Hunger | Zero Waste retail store certification 
program is designed to engage more associates through 
our training platform and connect everyday work to 
Our Purpose and impact plan. The six training modules 
include: general markdowns, produce markdowns, Food 
Rescue (surplus food donations), food waste recycling, 
plastic film recycling and cardboard recycling programs. 
New associates are expected to complete all six training 
modules listed above to become certified. 
In 2025, we introduced an advanced version of this 
certification with new department-specific training 
modules for all store leaders and departments. We also 
recognized retail divisions for top performance in food 
donations and food waste recycling programs, as well as 
stores achieving 90%+ diversion from landfill. 
We use “always-on” information-sharing tools with our 
associates to improve program execution, including more 
centralized and comprehensive metrics dashboards.
2,213
stores with food waste 
de-packaging programs 
by end of 2025
Material Topics 
WASTE & CIRCULARITY
FOOD WASTE
Company-Wide Waste Diversion-from-Landfill Rate
2022
2023
2024
82%
82%
85%
17%
increase in food  
waste recycling 
volume in 2024
PeopleOur ApproachIntroduction
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 38AppendixGovernancePlanet

2023 Weight
(short tons)
2024 Weight
(short tons)
2023 to 2024 Year-
Over-Year Change 
(%)
Reuse (RPCs)2 347,634 419,769 +21%
Donations3 61,983 63,770 +3%
Animal feed 62,418 56,164 -10%
Anaerobic digestion (AD)4 118,138 151,875 +29%
Composting 102,415 122,986 +20%
Baled cardboard 749,722 781,120 +4%
Baled plastic 29,215 44,659 +53%
Wood & pallets 738,876 926,034 +25%
Other recycling5 219,705 283,041 +29%
Waste to energy6 5,254 7,921 +51%
Landfill 526,978 490,867 -7%
Total waste (excluding reuse) 2,614,703 2,928,437 +12.0%
Total waste footprint 
(including reuse) 2,962,337 3,348,206 +13.0%
Diversion 82.0% 85.1% +3.8%
Waste Management Data 1
2024 performance—short tons
1.  Data reflects calendar year with the exception of construction waste, which reflects fiscal year. Waste is managed and reported to Kroger by our different waste and 
recycling haulers. Waste data excludes office locations and salvage centers, which represent very small proportions of our waste footprint. Table may not sum due 
to rounding
2.  Total waste generated excludes the reuse of reusable plastic containers (RPCs) in our supply chain network, though we do include these in our waste 
diversion calculation 
3.  Donation data primarily reflects food donations, with a small amount of non-food donations
4.  AD weights increased significantly in 2024 as Kroger expanded the use of AD programs and de-packaging solutions in our stores
5.  Construction project waste and recycling data excludes minor capital projects
6. In the 2023 data, some volume classified as waste-to-energy in previous years was found to be going to AD (a by-product of which is fuel that is used to generate 
energy on-site). A small portion of the volume ended up going to compost and animal feed
Managing Food Waste 
Keeping food waste out of landfills is a key part of 
Kroger’s Zero Hunger | Zero Waste impact plan. 
Our current ambition focuses on two main areas for 
improvements through 2025: 
•  Reducing the total amount of food waste generated 
in our stores by 50% (2017 baseline)
•  Improving how we manage remaining food  
waste by diverting 95% or more from landfills 
We do this by selling through as much food as we can, 
safely donating eligible food that can no longer be sold, 
and increasing the amount of remaining unsold food 
directed to food waste recycling programs to ensure 
as little food as possible ends up in landfills, where it 
produces GHG emissions.
Food Waste Reduction
To prevent fresh food from being wasted in the 
first place, we aim to sell as much as possible in 
our stores. Established markdown programs in all 
fresh departments make items more affordable and 
encourage faster sale. Our produce markdown (redbag) 
program, through which we discount and sell imperfect 
produce, is a customer favorite. Kroger also developed 
automated and dynamic markdown systems for more 
consistent program execution. 
Every day, our associates rescue remaining surplus fresh 
food to feed people in our communities. Kroger donates 
eligible fresh, safe food to hunger relief organizations in 
our local communities. In 2024, we donated 119 million 
pounds of surplus food to Feeding America’s network 
of food banks and agency partners through our Zero 
Hunger | Zero Waste Food Rescue program. 
Improving Diversion
We aim to divert remaining unsold food that cannot be 
donated to our communities through a combination of 
animal feed programs, composting, AD and biodiesel 
generation, each with their own benefits for Kroger and 
the environment. 
In 2024, we operated food waste recycling programs 
in 97% of our stores, achieving our goal of 95% store 
participation two years ahead of schedule. In 2024, we 
launched food waste recycling programs in more than 
100 retail stores. 
Kroger also introduced a new AD recovery program in 
a significant number of stores last year. Our primary 
AD program provider, Divert, Inc., offers innovative 
de-packaging technology that eliminates the need to 
remove food from packaging on-site before recycling, 
simplifying the process for our store associates and 
making it easier to recycle store food waste in day-to-
day operations. 
By the end of 2024, this Divert de-packaging solution 
was in place at 1,324 Kroger-operated stores. In 2025, 
we are expanding the program to include more than 
400 additional stores.
As a result of increased access to these recycling 
programs and improved store execution and data 
quality, Kroger increased the total amount of food 
waste recycled by 17% in 2024. 
PeopleOur ApproachIntroduction
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 39AppendixGovernancePlanet

Our Food Waste Footprint
We calculate our food waste footprint annually to track 
progress on our waste reduction and recycling goals. 
Working with WWF, Kroger established a food waste 
measurement methodology using the World Resources 
Institute’s (WRI) Food Loss & Waste Protocol. 
In 2024, we improved the percentage of in-store 
food waste diverted from landfills from 52% to 58%, 
largely due to expanding recycling and de-packaging 
programs. By diverting 186,090 tons of retail food 
waste from landfills in 2024, we avoided an estimated 
130,076 tons of CO 2e emissions. 
The total amount of food waste generated in our stores 
(regardless of final destination) in 2024 increased by 
20.3% compared to the prior year, from 265,773 tons 
to 319,720 tons. We aim to reduce the amount of food 
waste we produce by right-sizing our assortment, 
optimizing inventory management, improving dynamic 
markdown solutions and expanding items eligible for 
donation. The increase in food waste generated last 
year reflects changes in customer-focused programs, 
including moving our fresh cut fruit program to in-store 
versus third-party production; continuous changes in 
assortment and sales; and improvements to the data 
and assumptions informing our food waste calculation.
Ultimately, our goal is to reduce the amount of food 
waste generated and to recycle as much of the 
remaining waste as possible. Despite the short-term 
increase in waste generated, our long-term trends 
remain positive. Since 2017, we have decreased the 
amount of food waste generated in our stores by 4% 
and improved our diversion rate from 27% to 58%. 
Kroger is a member of the Pacific Coast Food Waste 
Commitment and the U.S. Food Waste Pact. These 
engagements provide pre-competitive forums where 
members can share best practices, collaborate cross-
functionally across the value chain and gain insight 
from industry experts to support our collective goals.
Destination4 Food Inedible Parts Total
Animal feed 28,273 9,005 37,278
Anaerobic digestion 111,578 – 111,578
Composting 27,399 – 27,399
Biodiesel production – 9,835 9,835
Landfill5 133,630 – 133,630
Total 300,881 18,839 319,720
Food Waste Management Data 
2024 Performance—short tons
Increased Food Waste Diversion Over Time 1, 2
Percentage
1. Data reflects calendar year
2.  Harris Teeter data is included in landfill and food diversion data but is not included in inedible parts diversion data due to insufficient data
3.  The increase in food waste generated last year is due to programs like moving our fresh cut fruit program to in-store versus third-party production, 
continuous changes in assortment, and improvements to the data and assumptions informing our food waste calculation
4.  Food waste diversion data reflects data collected from stores on composting, animal feed, AD, fat/bone and used cooking oil recycling programs
5.  The landfill metric shared here is estimated using data captured and synthesized from annual waste audits conducted in a subset of our stores
Change in Total Food Waste Generated Over Time 1, 2, 3 
Tons
2020
2021
2019
2017 
2018 
288,966
332,212
301,282
268,248
269,382
2022
2023
2024
245,289
265,773
319,720
2020
2021
2019
2017 
2018 
2022
2023
2024
44.7%
27.1%
39.7%
48.3%
48.8%
45.9%
51.7%
58.2%
PeopleOur ApproachIntroduction
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 40AppendixGovernancePlanet

Packaging Sustainability 
Product packaging is designed with multiple purposes in 
mind, from protecting food safety, quality and freshness 
to communicating product information to customers. 
While balancing these important priorities, Kroger aims 
to improve the sustainability of Our Brands packaging 
over time by reducing unnecessary packaging, using 
more recycled materials and increasing recyclability. 
Several years ago, Kroger introduced Our Brands  
Sustainable Packaging Goals  for 2030 that inform our 
approach to packaging design across the Our Brands  
portfolio. This work includes: 
•  Completing a baseline product packaging footprint 
to fully understand current packaging impacts
•  Seeking to achieve 100% recyclable, compostable 
and/or reusable Our Brands  packaging
•  Increasing recycled content in packaging so that the 
portfolio of packaging collectively contains at least 
10% post-consumer recycled (PCR) content 
•  Increasing awareness among Kroger customers 
about how to manage Our Brands  product 
packaging at end of life
• Reducing unnecessary packaging
Progress to Date
Over time, we are refining the Our Brands packaging 
dataset to reflect changes in the product assortment, 
capture packaging changes and replace estimated data 
points with updated supplier-provided information. 1 
We are working to improve the processes for capturing 
packaging data as we continually change the Our 
Brands product portfolio and update information 
regarding packaging recyclability. This is particularly 
relevant given expanding packaging legislation in 
several states in which we operate.
Moving forward, we plan to update our packaging 
footprint every other year to enable more time to 
implement product packaging changes between 
reporting cycles. The data presented below reflects 
previously reported 2023 performance. We will share 
the next packaging update in 2026 to report progress 
achieved during 2025. 
As previously reported, we achieved the following 
progress to date: 
•  52% of Our Brands  packaging met goal definitions 
for recyclability, reusability or compostability.  We 
measured this by assigning a recyclability score 
to each packaging component and calculating the 
weighted total that reflects component weight 
and product sales during the reporting year. The 
improving quality of our data, combined with a 
dynamic product assortment, led to an increase in 
our recyclability findings in 2023 over the prior year.
•  The in-scope Our Brands  product portfolio 
contained 10% PCR. To be conservative, we only use 
PCR content reported by suppliers, not any of our 
proxy data, in the numerator of this calculation. We 
are focused on adding PCR across our packaging 
portfolio, particularly in the Our Brands  products 
that we manufacture. 
Packaging Recyclability
Kroger’s framework for defining recyclability reflects 
best practice definitions and requirements of the Ellen 
MacArthur Foundation and the How2Recycle program. 
In this framework, we included the top two levels in 
our definition of recyclable for Our Brands  packaging. 
We aim for packaging to be widely collected for 
recycling or optimally recycled in practice and at scale.
1.  Our dataset primarily includes food products, both grocery and fresh, as well as health, beauty, household supplies and cleaning, while excluding general merchandise 
products (apparel and home goods), Home Chef®, Vitacost and national brand products
As legislation defines packaging recyclability in 
an increasing number of states, we will update our 
definitions and calculations to reflect compliance and 
reporting requirements. This changing landscape is 
also affecting how we prioritize necessary packaging 
changes and what we request from our suppliers 
in terms of innovation, materials changes or format 
redesigns. Multiple teams within Kroger—packaging 
engineers, sourcing experts and Our Brands  product 
managers—guide the review and improvement of 
packaging to meet legislated requirements and  
our goals.
We are contributing to the development of better 
processing and new markets for recycled materials. 
Through funding from the Zero Hunger | Zero Waste 
Foundation, we are a Recycling Coalition Supporter of 
The Recycling Partnership. The foundation continues 
to support the multi-stakeholder Polypropylene 
(PP) Recycling Coalition and the Polyethylene 
Terephthalate (PET) Recycling Coalition to improve 
community-level infrastructure for curbside PP 
collection and recycling and improve recycling 
outcomes for PET thermoform packaging.
Recycled Content Materials
Kroger teams are focused on how they can increase 
PCR in our product packaging to align with our own 
goals and expanding legislative requirements to 
achieve higher percentages. We continue to evaluate 
opportunities for using PCR in plastic packaging, 
implementing it where feasible. Factors like high 
demand, increasing costs, performance considerations 
like shelf life and coloration, and process changes to 
accommodate PCR materials make this challenging.
Convenient Recycling Opportunities
Our in-store plastic film collection and recycling 
program accepts monolayer plastic films that are not 
currently accepted in curbside recycling programs. 
This includes non-food items like plastic grocery bags; 
plastic overwrap on household tissues, diapers and 
bottled water; dry cleaning bags; retail produce bags; 
and packaging that is labeled as acceptable for in-
store drop-off programs.
Working with TerraCycle, we continue to offer 
the Kroger Our Brands Free Recycling Program, 
introduced in 2021 as the first program of its kind for 
a U.S. retailer. Participating Kroger customers can 
mail in flexible plastic packaging from their favorite 
Our Brands products for free recycling. The collected 
plastic packaging is transformed into useful products 
like playgrounds for local communities or lunch boxes. 
Participants earn TerraCycle points for every pound 
of waste they send in for recycling, which can be 
redeemed as a donation to a charity of their choice. 
Through 2024, our customers have returned more than 
2.7 million pieces of Our Brands  flexible packaging—
the equivalent of more than 58,000 pounds of 
plastic—making us one of the leading TerraCycle 
partners in North America.
PeopleOur ApproachIntroduction
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 41AppendixGovernancePlanet

Packaging Legislation
Like many other brands, Our Brands  products are 
subject to a number of different packaging legislation 
requirements in the states in which we operate, 
such as extended producer responsibility (EPR), 
recyclability requirements, minimum requirements for 
PCR and restrictions on packaging claims. 
Kroger’s multi-functional team of subject matter 
experts continues to monitor these expanding 
requirements, engage with industry groups and 
implementation organizations, prepare reporting 
materials and develop implementation plans 
where necessary.
Single-Use Plastic Bags
Our customers have a wide range of views on many 
sustainability-related topics, including single-use 
plastic bags. Some customers have already switched 
to reusable or paper bags to reduce their own waste, 
and others still rely on free single-use plastic bags for 
convenience and affordability when they shop. 
There are trade-offs to consider with every option, 
from the environmental impacts of producing, 
transporting, using and ultimately disposing of different 
types of bags, to the costs of purchasing and managing 
each type for the business and our customers. We 
believe legislation can be an effective way to level the 
playing field, encourage new consumer habits in a timely 
fashion and reduce plastic bag waste in nature. 
As described in our progress update , going forward, 
we will focus on achieving a continual reduction in 
single-use plastic shopping bags provided in our stores 
over time. 
Kroger also participates in the Consortium to Reinvent  
the Retail Bag, an industry collaboration to reduce 
single-use bag waste, managed by Closed Loop 
Partners’ Center for the Circular Economy. In 2024, 
Phase 2 of the consortium launched with Kroger’s 
participation at the “Strategic Partner” level. 
After consumer tests in Denver and Tucson in 2023, 
the consortium launched a “Break Up With the Single-
Use Bag” campaign in Southern California in 2025. Our 
Ralphs and Food 4 Less stores are participating in the 
campaign to test in-store and local communications 
and prepare for state legislation banning all plastic 
bags in 2026. The consortium also released this policy 
white paper analyzing single-use bag legislation in the 
U.S.
As always, we invite our customers to return their 
dry, clean single-use plastic shopping bags and other 
plastic films such as dry cleaning and bread bags, 
overwrap packaging for diapers, water bottles and 
more through our in-store recycling programs.
Recyclability  
Level
Brief  
Description
Example  
Packaging Types
% of Kroger 
Packaging2
Recycled in practice  
and at scale
The component is recyclable and either remaining 
components are compatible with the recycling process or 
non-recyclable components can be separated. The packaging 
type must achieve a 30% post-consumer recycling rate in 
multiple regions.
Glass beverage 
containers; cardboard, 
paperboard; aluminum 
beverage cans, pans, 
trays
14%
Widely collected 
for recycling
A majority percentage of the population (at least 60%) 
has access to a recycling collection system that accepts 
the packaging (curbside or special take-back schemes). 
There are occasions when packaging is collected through a 
recycling system but not recycled.
Plastic bottles, jugs, 
jars (PET,3 HDPE,4 
LDPE5); PP6 cups; 
aluminum food cans; 
glass containers
38%
Sometimes collected 
for recycling
A significant percentage (20%–59%) of the population has 
access to a curbside recycling collection system that accepts 
the packaging. There are occasions when packaging is 
collected through a recycling system but not recycled.
PET clamshells, 
tubs, trays; LDPE 
containers; aluminum 
trays, aerosol 
containers
1%
Recycle ready Packaging is designed for collection, sorting and recycling 
using end-of-life processes, but collection, sorting and 
recycling infrastructure is not yet widely available.
Monolayer PE7 plastic 
film 2%
Not recyclable Packaging is unable to be sorted, reprocessed and provide 
value for end markets without significant challenges. Though 
it might be technically possible to recycle a packaging item, 
there are systemic barriers to the collection, sorting and 
recycling in practice, at scale and with reasonable economics.
Multilayer plastic film; 
problematic materials 
(e.g., PS,8 PVC,9 
PFAS10)
45%
Packaging Recyclability Definitions and Progress¹
1. Performance shown here reflects 2023 data, as we 
did not recalculate progress on goals for 2024
2. Totals may not sum due to rounding
3. PET: Polyethylene terephthalate
4. HDPE: High-density polyethylene
5. LDPE: Low-density polyethylene
6. PP: Polypropylene
7. PE: Polyethylene
8. PS: Polystyrene
9. PVC: Polyvinyl chloride
10.  PFAS: Per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances
PeopleOur ApproachIntroduction
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 42AppendixGovernancePlanet

Kroger relies on natural resources to operate our business and bring a wide 
range of products from around the world to our customers. Our goals to protect 
biodiversity, improve agricultural practices and conserve water reflect our ambition 
to work with suppliers to ensure these resources are available far into the future. 
Biodiversity & Resource Conservation
38
fishery improvement projects 
supported in 2024 
5K+
natural and organic  
items in the average  
Kroger-operated store
Our Approach
Kroger’s Zero Hunger | Zero Waste impact plan and 
other public goals—including emissions reduction, 
no-deforestation, seafood sustainability, pollinator 
protection and dairy stewardship goals—support a 
wide range of positive changes in our supply chain.
Leaders in Merchandising, Sourcing and 
Communications & Public Affairs work together 
to manage key product categories that may pose 
higher risk and where we identify opportunities for 
change. Kroger’s senior leadership team and Public 
Responsibilities Committee of the Board provide 
additional direction and oversight. 
Kroger continues to monitor emerging nature-
based frameworks for sustainability, including 
those designed for target-setting and disclosure, so 
we can evaluate the potential impact to Kroger of 
new guidelines and expectations on this complex 
topic. We also engage our suppliers for insights and 
feedback when setting expectations in key categories. 
An ongoing biodiversity risk assessment conducted in 
tandem with a refreshed climate risk assessment—now 
including select commodities from our supply chain—
will help Kroger better understand the types and 
magnitudes of risks in our commodity supply chains. 
Supply Chain 
Sustainability
As a leading manufacturer, retailer and distributor of 
food products and other essentials, we believe it is 
important for our business to maintain healthy natural 
ecosystems that sustain our supply chain and support 
our global food system. 
Agricultural Practices
Encouraging our suppliers to adopt more sustainable 
agricultural practices in ways that work for their 
business is an important part of our approach. We 
believe collaboration with our vendors, suppliers 
and the broader value chain is critical for achieving 
meaningful changes over time and building a more 
resilient food system for the future. 
As a dairy processor, Kroger is a signatory of the 
U.S. Dairy Stewardship Commitment, which seeks 
to monitor and reduce the environmental impacts 
of the dairy industry. We are also members of Field 
to Market: The Alliance for Sustainable Agriculture, 
which develops science-driven and outcomes-based 
programs and tools for industry collaboration. 
Material Topics
BIODIVERSITY & CONSERVATION
AGRICULTURAL PRACTICES
WATER
Integrated Pest Management Practices 
In 2024, we shared Kroger’s Goal to Protect Pollinators 
& Biodiversity, which requires fresh produce  suppliers to 
implement Integrated Pest Management (IPM) practices 
for all products supplied to Kroger. We expect medium- 
to large-sized suppliers to meet this requirement by the 
end of 2028, with smaller suppliers to follow by 2030.
We worked with Sustainable Food Group, a branch of 
the IPM Institute of North America, to develop this goal. 
We surveyed a sample of suppliers—representing about 
40% of Kroger’s fresh produce spend—on topics like 
pest management, soil health, biodiversity and water 
conservation. From this survey, we also learned that 
suppliers would appreciate efforts to streamline produce 
growing requirements across retailers and other food 
buyers, if it could be done in a pre-competitive manner. 
Kroger is developing our approach for implementing 
this goal for the coming years. We believe engaging our 
suppliers, carefully reviewing certifications and making 
informed sourcing decisions will advance progress 
toward our goal and reduce supply chain impacts on 
pollinators.
$1.45M
contributed to 
Community Development 
Funds from Kroger’s  
Fair Trade Certified  
purchases in 2024
Biodiversity
risk assessment  
in process
PeopleOur ApproachIntroduction
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 43AppendixGovernancePlanet

Commodity Goal(s) Progress Update1
Palm oil • Maintain our existing goal, set in 2015, to source 
palm oil, palm kernel oil and palm oil derivatives 
in Our Brands products from sources certified to 
the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) 
supply chain standard, or equivalent, with a 
preference for sourcing physical palm oil certified 
to an RSPO Mass Balance standard or higher
• 94% of palm oil-based ingredients, by volume, 
were certified
• 91% were certified to the Mass Balance supply chain 
standard or higher
Beef2 • Source beef in our fresh meat case and beef-
based ingredients used in our manufacturing 
plants from sources that are deforestation-free 
by 2025
• Achieve the same goal for all Our Brands 
products by 2030
• 97.6% of beef-based ingredients in our fresh meat 
case and manufacturing plants, by volume, were 
harvested in regions with low- or no-deforestation 
risk. In addition, 93.6% were from cattle born, raised 
and harvested in low- or no-deforestation risk regions
• Moving forward, Kroger will report progress on our 
no-deforestation goal for beef-based ingredients 
in Kroger third-party-manufactured Our Brands 
products every other year
Soy2 • Source soy-based ingredients used in our 
manufacturing plants from sources that are 
deforestation-free by 2025
• Achieve the same goal for all Our Brands 
products by 2030
• 99.9% of soy-based ingredients sourced into our 
plants, by volume, were from low- or no-deforestation 
risk regions
• Moving forward, Kroger will report progress on our 
no-deforestation goal for soy-based ingredients 
in Kroger third-party-manufactured Our Brands 
products every other year
Paper • Source virgin fiber used in product packaging in 
our manufacturing plants certified to the FSC,3 
SFI4 and/or PEFC5 standards, with preference for 
the FSC standard, by 2025
• Achieve the same goal for all Our Brands 
products, including paper product packaging 
and household paper products
• 94.2% of paper, by volume, in manufacturing plants 
was certified and/or contained recycled content
• Moving forward, Kroger will report progress on our 
no-deforestation goal for Our Brands household 
paper and paper-based packaging every other year
No-Deforestation Goal Progress
1. Data reflects responses received from suppliers and is to the best of their knowledge. In 
some cases, proxy data from prior year may be used
2.  We use the geographic deforestation risk in the CDP Forests questionnaire guidance to 
determine if the beef and soy ingredients in our beef counter, plants and Kroger-labeled 
products are at risk for deforestation. CDP uses the definition of “tree cover loss”
Organic Growing Practices 
We offer our customers a wide assortment of 
organic products spanning our fresh and grocery 
departments. Organic agricultural practices can help 
reduce environmental impacts to pollinators and the 
ecosystems where products are grown. The average 
Kroger store contains more than 5,000 natural and 
organic products, with all stores carrying some 
assortment. Several of Kroger’s food production plants 
produce certified organic products, as do our third-
party and national brand vendors. 
No-Deforestation Goal 
To address the risk of tropical deforestation in  
our supply chain, we developed Kroger’s  
No-Deforestation Commitment: Our Brand s, 
which aims to minimize deforestation in key at-risk 
commodities, including palm oil, beef, soy and paper. 
We query our suppliers annually to assess alignment 
with our goal. 
For products that contain palm oil or paper, we require 
our suppliers to align with well-established certification 
frameworks to demonstrate the management of 
deforestation-related impacts. Because beef and soy 
commodities lack widely established certification 
frameworks, we use a geographic risk-based approach. 
We also ask our suppliers for information about their no-
deforestation practices.
Because our global supply chain is highly complex, 
we don’t always have full visibility into the land-based 
impacts of the products we source. Increased supply 
chain visibility is important for achieving our goals, 
and we believe that by requesting deforestation-
related information from our suppliers on a regular 
basis, we can continue improving transparency 
in our commodity supply chains where there are 
deforestation risks.
We provide an overview of commodity-specific  
progress in the adjacent table.
3. Forest Stewardship Council
4. Sustainable Forestry Initiative
5.  Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification
PeopleOur ApproachIntroduction
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 44AppendixGovernancePlanet

Fair Trade Certified Products
We offer nearly 100 Fair Trade Certified Our Brands  
products spanning a variety of commodity categories. 
In 2024, we sourced 26.48 million pounds of certified 
ingredients for our products, an increase of 2% from 
the prior year. The Fair Trade Certified label is backed 
by more than 120 social, environmental and economic 
protections, with benefits for both the people making 
our products and our planet. 
Fair Trade standards and guidelines foster sustainable 
production practices that preserve the environment, 
enhance climate resilience, and support the health 
and quality of life of producers and their communities. 
A portion of every Fair Trade purchase goes to 
Community Development Funds for initiatives 
identified by workers and their communities 
to meet their most pressing needs. This means 
communities can make critical investments to 
improve infrastructure and provide basic resources 
like education, sanitation and clean drinking water. 
Kroger’s total Fair Trade Certified purchases 
contributed $1.45 million in Community Development 
Funds in 2024.
As part of the Sustainable Coffee Challenge, Kroger 
aims to continue sustainably sourcing coffee products 
from international growing regions for our Simple 
Truth® and Private Selection® brands. In 2024, 100% 
of Simple Truth® and 89% of Private Selection® coffee 
products met our commitment. 
Fair Trade Certified Ingredients Used 2
Pounds
2022
2023
23.31M
25.97M
2024 26.48M
Seafood Sustainability 
Kroger has a long-standing focus on improving 
seafood sustainability in collaboration with WWF. 
Together, we monitor progress in sourcing regions 
and contribute to industry efforts to improve fishery 
practices and protect aquatic ecosystems. 
Our Seafood Sustainability Policy  articulates our 
commitments and supplier expectations. In 2024, 
we sourced 97% of wild-caught seafood and 99% of 
farm-raised seafood in our Seafood department in 
alignment with our policy.
We rely on certifications to verify that facilities, 
fisheries and farms in our supply chain are operating 
responsibly and sustainably. These organizations 
occasionally lose their certifications, which may affect 
performance on our goals until the source fishery or 
aquaculture farm improves, or until we can move to a 
more sustainable or certified source. As a result, we 
aim to maintain at least 95% alignment with the wild-
caught and farm-raised certifications specified in our 
seafood policy.
In 2024, we continued supporting fishery improvement 
projects (FIPs) to help fisheries achieve Marine 
Stewardship Council (MSC) certification. This year, 
Kroger’s seafood sourcing included wild-caught 
seafood from 38 comprehensive FIPs.
In 2024, 98% of our shelf-stable tuna, by volume,  
was from suppliers aligned with our requirement 
that tuna suppliers1 be in good standing with the 
International Seafood Sustainability Foundation (ISSF). 
We also aim to source 20% of shelf-stable  Our Brands  
tuna from MSC-certified fisheries by 2025. In 2024, 
24% of relevant volume came from MSC-certified 
sources, an increase of nearly 17 points from 2023 
progress, due to a continued emphasis on procuring 
certified products.
We will continue working with WWF and our seafood 
suppliers to improve the transparency and traceability 
of seafood globally. This is particularly important for 
Kroger as we seek to meet the U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration’s (FDA) traceability requirements for 
seafood under the Food Safety Modernization Act. 
For more details, please see the  WWF-Kroger Seafood  
Sustainability Report .
Farm-Raised Seafood Meeting Kroger’s Seafood 
Sustainability Policy 
2022 99%
2023
2024
98%
99%
Wild-Caught Seafood Meeting Kroger’s Seafood 
Sustainability Policy
2022 95%
2023
2024
96%
97%
1.  Both Our Brands and national brands 
2. 2022 and 2023 values are restated due to a correction in the source data. Data 
includes finished goods, but excludes fresh products
PeopleOur ApproachIntroduction
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 45AppendixGovernancePlanet

Water 
Safe, high-quality and abundant water is critical for 
the health of our associates, customers, communities 
and the planet. Across our facilities, we find ways 
to reduce water use in day-to-day operations to 
increase efficiency and protect natural resources. 
Kroger’s periodic water risk assessments for our 
facilities have assessed location-based water risk 
across several impact areas, including physical 
quantity, physical quality, and regulatory and 
reputational risks. In our last assessment, some of  
our facilities were in regions with a defined level  
of water stress; collectively, these facilities  
accounted for less than 10% of our total facilities.
Kroger has retrofitted our retail stores to adopt a 
water efficiency plan that includes multiple parts 
of the store, both inside and out. As a result, we are 
seeing additional water savings and efficiency with 
the help of approximately 200 adiabatic condensers 
(or coolers). These condensers use water for cooling 
only when needed, with an estimated annual saving 
of 1,000 kGal per site.
Several of our manufacturing plants use significant 
amounts of water in their production processes. Over 
time, our plant engineers have found ways to reduce 
and reuse water in their operations. We use on-site 
wastewater treatment at certain plants, including our 
K.B. Specialty Foods plant in Greensburg, IN, where 
AD technology converts wastewater to renewable 
biogas and electricity that is used to power the facility. 
1.  Because water consumption is not metered in all stores, we use a detailed estimation process to fill in missing data points, including using proxy data from the previous year 
and per-square-foot intensity metrics. We also refine the portfolio of sites included in our water inventory based on store closures, site openings and updated information 
about locations 
2. Water data reflects calendar year results and all Kroger operations
Water Footprint 2 
Billion gallons
2022
2023
5.69
5.91
2024 5.84
In 2024, company-wide water consumption 
decreased by 1.3%. This is partly driven by 
ongoing improvements in data quality as we 
move from estimated to actual sources. 1
We continue to monitor and evaluate progress 
over time on water use and management across 
our operations. 
Plant-Based Products
Kroger’s Our Brands  and national brand suppliers have 
developed a large variety of plant-based products 
as alternatives to traditional animal-based proteins 
and ingredients. These items can reduce the carbon 
emissions and other environmental impacts of animal-
based products and may also provide health benefits. 
In 2024, Kroger offered about 115 plant-based Our 
Brands items, primarily in the Simple Truth® brand. 
These products span 35 Kroger merchandising 
categories, including deli, bakery, dairy, meat, snacks 
and frozen. Total sales of Our Brands plant-based items 
decreased by 13% between 2023 and 2024, primarily 
due to shifting demands and customer preferences. 
As with our entire assortment, we continue to adjust 
our plant-based offerings to meet our customers’ needs 
in this evolving space. Sales of the most popular plant-
based items remain strong, including alternative milks 
and tofu. 
In recent years, Kroger developed and promoted a 
campaign to highlight plant-based items across the 
store, featuring top national brands and Simple Truth® 
items. This Power of Plant Based campaign used special 
promotions to drive attention to and increase customer 
engagement with these products. 
As part of the outreach to encourage customers to try 
plant-based items, many brands have participated in an 
annual food truck event presented in multiple Kroger 
geographies, featuring free samples and coupons for 
participating items. 
PeopleOur ApproachIntroduction
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 46AppendixGovernancePlanet

Governance
We offer a wide range of affordable food and other 
essentials to serve millions of customers every day. 
Our strong corporate governance enables us to operate 
responsibly and improve how we manage a complex  
global supply chain. 
In This Section 
48 Corporate Governance 
55  Responsible Supply Chain  
& Sourcing 
Material Topics
•  Corporate Governance 
•  Business Ethics & Compliance 
•  Food Safety
•  Non-Food Product Safety
•  Data Privacy & Cybersecurity 
•  Public Policy Practices 
•  Marketing Practices & Product Labeling
•  Retail Security
•  Responsible Supply Chain & Sourcing
•  Human Rights
•  Animal Welfare
47
2025 Kroger Responsible Business ReportPeopleOur ApproachIntroduction Planet AppendixGovernance

Kroger’s operations and supply chain include communities near and far. We 
engage leaders in our strategy and hold teams accountable for results. We are 
making progress on our journey to integrate ownership for material topics within 
and across our business. Our centralized structure, vertical integration and focus 
on responsible sourcing also enable our forward progress. 
Corporate Governance
Our Approach
Kroger has a history of strong corporate governance, 
including oversight of material topics affecting 
people and our planet. Our Law Department oversees 
matters of corporate governance with oversight from 
the Board of Directors. We manage key topics in 
the context of our business priorities and strategies, 
balancing the long-term interests of our associates, 
customers, communities and other stakeholders.
Our approach to managing Responsible Business 
topics is informed by a comprehensive, third-party–
led materiality assessment  aligned with the principles 
of double materiality and best practices for defining 
and prioritizing material topics. Insights from this 
materiality assessment inform our approach to 
engaging associates, customers, communities and 
other stakeholders and how we report progress. 
We integrate topic management and goals into 
our business and corporate governance practices, 
including oversight and accountability for enterprise 
risk among senior leadership and the Board. Five 
Board committees have oversight of Responsible 
Business topics, as outlined on the next page. 
Details of our Board members’ areas of expertise, 
as well as committee composition, are available 
online in Kroger’s 2025 Proxy Statement and 2024  
Annual Report .
Several Kroger departments support our work, including:
•  Associate Experience & Labor Relations:  Leads 
human capital management, including hiring, 
compensation and benefits; leads diversity and 
inclusion initiatives; engages with labor unions to 
negotiate collective bargaining agreements
•  Audit: Oversees financial reporting and manages 
independent auditors
•  Communications & Public Affairs:  Leads 
the Responsible Business strategy, including 
sustainability and social responsibility, and 
communications and public affairs, including 
government relations, advocacy and philanthropy
•  Corporate Food Technology: Oversees food, health 
and beauty care product safety and quality assurance; 
manages recalls affecting Kroger-manufactured and 
-labeled products and national brands; leads animal 
welfare program
•  Ethics & Compliance: Leads awareness and 
implementation of corporate policies, including 
Kroger’s Policy on Business Ethics, Anti-Corruption 
Policy, Vendor Code of Conduct and Privacy  
Policy; oversees compliance with relevant laws  
and regulations, including environmental requirements
•  Merchandising & Marketing:  Determines category 
assortment and promotional strategies; leads 
Our Brands strategy and assortment; leads supplier 
engagement together with Sourcing; leads customer 
engagement, loyalty and rewards
•  Retail Operations: Guides standards, policies and 
program implementation for retail stores; advances 
operational performance on topics like food access, 
food waste and operational waste diversion
•  Sourcing:  Sources raw materials and finished 
products for Our Brands ; purchases national brand 
items for resale and goods not for resale; leads 
Responsible Sourcing program; leads supplier 
engagement with Merchandising
•  Supply Chain:  Manages our manufacturing 
operations, distribution network and 
transportation fleet
•  Technology & Digital:  Focuses on governance, 
innovation and digital channels; manages approach 
to privacy and cybersecurity
Material Topics
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
BUSINESS ETHICS & COMPLIANCE
FOOD SAFETY
NON-FOOD PRODUCT SAFETY 
DATA PRIVACY & CYBERSECURITY
PUBLIC POLICY PRACTICES
MARKETING PRACTICES & PRODUCT LABELING
RETAIL SECURITY
PeopleOur ApproachIntroduction Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 48AppendixGovernance

Business Ethics & Compliance
We strive to uphold the highest ethical standards and 
help our associates, suppliers and vendors do the 
same. We consistently review company policies and 
update them as appropriate to advance ethical and 
responsible practices.
Our Ethics & Compliance team is responsible for 
driving internal implementation of Kroger’s Policy on 
Business Ethics and related policies and monitoring 
our company helpline, through which associates 
can anonymously report concerns. Together with 
Communications & Public Affairs and Sourcing 
teams, the Ethics & Compliance team monitors 
legislative and regulatory changes, shares updates 
and develops compliance programs as needed.
Regulatory Compliance 
Kroger is committed to product safety and quality. 
Our suppliers must comply with regulatory 
requirements pertaining to product safety and meet 
or exceed Kroger’s quality, safety and performance 
requirements. A dedicated group maintains a General 
Merchandise Regulatory Compliance and Quality 
Assurance Program, which outlines product-testing 
requirements for Our Brands general merchandise.
To enhance responsible disposal practices, our 
Environmental Compliance team oversees processes 
for our stores to properly manage unsalable products, 
store-use chemicals and other products that have 
reached the end of their useful life. We leverage UL 
Solutions’ WERCSmart platform to collect, validate 
and assess safety and disposal data for hazardous and 
non-hazardous products, ensuring our sites receive 
accurate guidance for compliant handling, storage and 
disposal. Licensed hazardous waste vendors collect 
materials from our sites for appropriate disposal, 
reuse, recycling or destruction in full compliance with 
applicable regulations.
Oversight of Responsible Business Topics
Board of Directors: Committee Oversight
Senior Leadership Team
Cross-Functional Topic Management
Audit  
Committee 
Data Privacy & Cybersecurity
Ethics
Financial Integrity
Legal & Regulatory
Operational & Third-Party 
Compliance
Compensation & Talent 
Development Committee
Associate Experience 
Diversity & Inclusion
Executive Compensation
Labor Relations
Talent Development
Corporate Governance 
Committee
Board Recruitment
Board Succession
Independent Director 
Compensation
Shareholder Advisory Votes & 
Shareholder Proposals
Shareholder Engagement 
Program
Finance  
Committee
Capital spending to  
ensure consistency with 
Responsible Business  
strategy & goals
Public Responsibilities 
Committee
Advocacy & Public Policy
Communications & Brand 
Stewardship
Responsible Sourcing
Safety
Social Responsibility
Stakeholder Relations
Sustainability
Food Access
Data Governance  
Committee
Climate Impact
Diversity & Inclusion 
Advisory Council
Packaging
Enterprise Risk  
Management
Waste & Circularity
Responsible Business  
Team
Responsible Sourcing
Ethics &  
Compliance
PeopleOur ApproachIntroduction Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 49AppendixGovernance

Chemical Management
We remain focused on product quality and safety, 
setting high standards for all Our Brands products. Our 
regulatory compliance and quality assurance programs 
define product and supplier requirements, such as 
quality specifications, testing protocols, and reporting 
and labeling, to ensure safe, high-quality products.
As reflected in our Safer Chemicals Statement, 
we proactively identify chemicals to remove 
from Our Brands products. Examples of recent 
progress include:
•  100% of Our Brands  canned food items remained  
free of bisphenol A (BPA) liners in 2024
•  83% of Our Brands  canned beverage items (by 
volume) did not contain BPA in the can liner. We will 
continue to expand this reach as supply becomes 
available 
•  Our Apparel Restricted Substances Policy, which 
includes a robust Restricted Substances List (RSL), 
establishes requirements about chemicals that are 
not permitted in Our Brands  apparel products 
•  Kroger has evaluated the feasibility of implementing 
a restricted substance monitoring list, and while 
we will consider it periodically, we currently remain 
focused on offering Our Brands  and national brand 
products aligned with our free-from lists
Food & Product Safety
Providing safe, quality food and products for our 
customers is Kroger’s highest priority. Our Corporate 
Food Technology (CFT) team oversees safety, quality 
assurance and regulatory compliance for food and 
other products. For suppliers and others, these are 
conditions of doing business with us. We strive to meet 
and exceed high expectations for food safety, quality 
and freshness across our company. 
Kroger’s vice president of CFT and Regulatory Compliance 
leads a team of scientists and technologists who oversee 
food and product safety and quality assurance for our 
retail stores, food production facilities, warehouses and 
dedicated fulfillment centers. They monitor food integrity 
and purity, product size and specifications, and changes 
in legislation and regulations. The CFT team improves 
processes based on the latest best practices and guidance 
on allergens. Kroger’s senior leadership team and Public 
Responsibilities Committee of the Board oversee food 
safety performance. 
We follow a risk-based approach to managing food 
safety. We focus on preventing foodborne illness 
through a culture of continuous improvement and 
accountability. We train associates on food safety 
policies and process controls, conduct facility food 
safety audits, monitor performance, and conduct 
efficient product recalls and customer notifications. 
Kroger is preparing to meet the updated compliance 
requirements for the FDA’s Food Traceability Rule, 
which implements Section 204 of the Food Safety 
Modernization Act (FSMA). We support efforts to enable 
faster identification of recalled items to remove them 
from sale more efficiently. We also aim for continued 
improvements in data collection and traceability as foods 
move through our value chain. 
Kroger is an active member of The Consumer Goods 
Forum and its Coalition of Action on Food Safety: 
the Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI). Through 
GFSI, we are part of a community of 45 retailers and 
manufacturers that oversees food safety standards for 
businesses and collaborates to improve best practices. 
Practices & Process Controls 
The CFT team conducts frequent product testing 
to continually improve customer satisfaction. The 
team tests Kroger-manufactured items for safety and 
quality; conducts food safety audits at all facilities; 
reviews third-party audits of suppliers’ facilities for 
compliance; works with regulatory agencies and 
suppliers to manage recalls affecting Our Brands  
and national brand products; and advises the 
Communications & Public Affairs team on recall 
communications, policy development and advocacy.
Every year, the CFT team updates cleaning protocols 
and master sanitation and cleaning schedules at all 
facilities, reflecting best practices. We have strict 
governance in place to ensure our own facilities 
and suppliers adhere to food safety requirements 
and process controls, including critical cold chain 
management guidelines. The team monitors Kroger’s 
operational performance on food safety training, audits 
and inspections.
Grocery Stores 
Across our stores, retail division food safety managers 
help ensure compliance with federal, state and local 
regulations through our risk prevention strategy, which 
focuses on:
• Associate training
• Food safety process controls
• Store sanitation
• Audits and food safety reviews
Food safety managers also participate in food safety 
organizations and industry groups to stay informed of 
new developments and share best practices. Kroger 
continues to train managers and associates working 
in store Fresh departments in food safety practices. In 
2024, more than 3,100 store management and Fresh 
department associates were trained and nationally 
certified as Food Managers. We also trained more than 
98% of store Fresh department new hires with food 
safety modules and daily reminders delivered through 
our Fresh Start associate training platform. 
Kroger completed nearly 15,500 in-store food safety 
audits in 2024 and improved our year-over-year food 
safety violation per audit rate. 
Manufacturing Facilities
All Kroger-operated food manufacturing facilities are 
certified to Safe Quality Food Institute standards, and 
every plant has an assigned Quality Assurance Manager 
and a Safe Quality Food Practitioner. We manufacture 
approximately 31% of total Our Brands units sold at our 
food processing plants across the country, using quality 
control plans from the ingredient level all the way to the 
finished product. The plans are adjusted according to 
various inputs, including customer comments. 
Our manufacturing food safety risk mitigation 
strategy includes:
• Leadership and training
• Hazard analysis and risk-based preventive controls
• Sanitation control
• Food allergen control
• Environmental monitoring programs
• Audits and food safety reviews
• Recall management
PeopleOur ApproachIntroduction Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 50AppendixGovernance

Supply Chain
Kroger seeks to have our distribution and fulfillment 
centers that store food achieve GFSI standards for 
warehouse and distribution facilities by the end of  
2025. To support this transition, a new Corporate 
Supply Chain Food Safety Manager oversees all food 
safety and regulatory programs in these facilities. In 
2024, we conducted external audits for 38 warehouses 
that store and distribute food.
Distribution Centers
Management responsibilities are outlined in our 
food safety and sanitation standards, and associates 
implement formal documented programs, including 
site-specific Food Safety Plans. Kroger’s distribution 
centers follow established cold chain management 
standards to help ensure temperature-sensitive 
products are managed properly in transit and storage. 
This is of particular importance during inbound and 
outbound transportation.
Key elements of these standards include:
•  Food safety responsibility and documented practices
• Proper receipt and storage of materials
• Cleaning practices
• Maintenance for food safety
• Pest prevention to avoid food adulteration
Fulfillment Centers
Our fleet of refrigerated Kroger Delivery trucks, which 
can store up to 20 orders, is designed to keep food 
safe and fresh for customers while being delivered 
to their doorstep. In addition to our warehouse food 
safety standards, we implement additional process 
controls to manage ambient, chilled and frozen 
products at our dedicated Kroger Delivery fulfillment 
centers. Powerful machine learning algorithms 
optimize delivery routes, considering factors such as 
road conditions and optimal fuel use to deliver food 
safely and efficiently.
Allergens
Kroger carefully manages federal requirements for 
food safety regarding allergens. Known allergens 
required on labels include peanuts, tree nuts, dairy, 
egg, wheat, fish, crustacean shellfish, soy and sesame. 
Product Reformulations 
We review Our Brands items regularly and reformulate 
products in ways that improve taste and quality for our 
customers. In 2025, we are preparing for additional 
product reformulations to comply with new federal 
guidance from the U.S. Department of Health and 
Human Services and FDA on timelines to phase out 
petroleum-based synthetic dyes from food products.
Non-Food Product Safety & Quality 
Our Brands non-food products adhere to a 
multifaceted program to help ensure quality. We 
work with carefully selected suppliers that have been 
vetted and that adhere to compliance requirements 
as outlined in our centralized Supplier Hub, 
including third-party Good Manufacturing Practice 
(GMP) certifications.
All products undergo evaluation and standard setting 
during the development process. Product quality 
is designed into the process from the start through 
preliminary analytical testing, technical document review, 
product specification concurrence between Kroger 
and the supplier, and a first production review prior to 
release. After introducing the product to market, we 
continue to monitor and maintain quality. New products 
are tested by a third-party laboratory after six months 
in market, and we use a risk-based approach to conduct 
third-party testing for mature products.
We monitor and document customer feedback, which 
is also reviewed and addressed by our technical team 
and the relevant supplier for continual improvement. 
Kroger’s CFT and Regulatory Compliance teams also 
monitor regulatory activity over time related to product 
safety and ingredients to help ensure continued product 
safety and compliance. Information about product 
regulatory compliance is available in the Business Ethics 
& Compliance section .
Recall Management 
Products are removed from sale for many reasons, 
including incorrect package labels, undeclared 
allergens and, on rare occasions, the risk of illness or 
injury. Because our customers’ safety is our highest 
priority, Kroger is a leader in recall management and 
communications. We consistently meet and exceed 
industry and government standards for recalls and 
product withdrawals. 
Our experienced team coordinates recalls with suppliers, 
regulatory agencies and an internal network of food 
safety specialists and recall managers. This 24-hour-a-
day, seven-day-a-week process focuses on identifying 
items to be recalled or withdrawn from our distribution 
network and retail stores and working with appropriate 
teams to ensure the recalled items are quickly removed 
from sale. We also investigate the issue, take corrective 
actions and modify or create programs to minimize or 
eliminate similar issues in the future.
Kroger was one of the first retailers to implement a 
personalized customer notification system for certain 
types of recalls. Using our customer loyalty database, 
we can identify shoppers who may have purchased 
a specific recalled item. If a recall involves a possible 
health risk—such as an undeclared allergen or potential 
foodborne illness—we activate our notification systems 
to alert customers quickly through register receipts and 
email messages. Kroger also offers a toll-free Customer 
Service Center and information line staffed with 
professionals who can answer questions about food 
safety and items that may have been recalled.
In 2024, the Kroger team managed a total of 57 recall 
events. Of these, 25 were Class I product recalls, 
including 19 related to food products. None of these 
Class I recalls involved Our Brands  items produced in a 
Kroger-operated manufacturing facility. As in previous 
years, recalls for undeclared allergens continue to be a 
primary cause of Class I food recalls.
Enabling Faster Recalls 
We continue to explore new ways to improve our 
recall management systems. The Kroger Technology 
& Digital team is working with the CFT team and other 
departments to develop systems to enable product and 
data mapping at every step of an item’s journey through 
the supply chain. This will enable future compliance 
with the FSMA Food Traceability Rule. In 2025, the 
FDA extended the compliance date for this rule by 
30 months. 
Kroger continues to design technology systems to 
enable future compliance, prioritizing high-risk products 
identified on the FDA’s Food Traceability List. In addition 
to enabling faster recalls, we expect this work to 
improve supply chain oversight and accountability for 
key sourcing-related goals.
Number of Class I recall events involving  
Kroger-manufactured Our Brands  items 
2022
2023
0
0
2024 0
PeopleOur ApproachIntroduction Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 51AppendixGovernance

Privacy & Cybersecurity 
Kroger recognizes the responsibility to protect our 
customers’ and associates’ information as well as our 
own data and business systems. We prioritize and invest 
in strong data privacy and cybersecurity practices 
and strive to manage information in a way that is 
transparent, fair and trustworthy.
The chief privacy officer leads Kroger’s Privacy Office, 
reporting to the chief ethics and compliance officer and 
providing updates to an executive-level Privacy Steering 
Committee. The chief digital officer, chief information 
security officer and Cybersecurity team are responsible 
for cybersecurity with oversight from the Audit 
Committee of the Board.
Privacy 
The Privacy Office leads our company-wide privacy 
program. It oversees Kroger’s efforts to align its data 
privacy practices with applicable federal, state and 
international laws and manages risks related to the 
collection, use and sharing of personal data while 
enabling innovation and maintaining trust. 
Kroger’s Privacy Office is also responsible for analyzing 
new privacy laws, identifying potential impacts and 
working with the business to adjust practices, processes 
and communications relating to our customers’ and 
associates’ privacy. Three foundational pillars guide our 
privacy practices:
•  Embedding responsibility and accountability for 
protecting personal information across our lines of 
business and functions
•  Aligning with and meeting regulatory requirements to 
serve our customers and associates
•  Increasing transparency in our policies and practices 
to clearly explain how and why we collect and 
process information
To build on those foundational pillars, we conduct 
periodic reviews of our Privacy Policy to make sure it is 
clear, easy to understand and accurately reflects our data 
practices, including which privacy rights are available to 
individuals and how we collect, use and share data.
We face an increasingly complex privacy landscape. 
Currently, 20 states have enacted comprehensive 
consumer privacy laws covering more than half of the 
U.S. population. In addition, several states have passed 
specialized privacy laws focused on consumer health 
data, children’s data, artificial intelligence (AI) and 
more. Kroger’s Privacy Office, Law Department and 
Communications & Public Affairs team monitor legislative, 
compliance and policy developments at federal and state 
levels to inform internal policies and processes designed 
to meet or exceed compliance standards.
Kroger continues to invest in initiatives to enhance its 
existing privacy practices and meet new and evolving 
compliance requirements. When a new state consumer 
privacy law goes into effect, we update our online and in-
store privacy notices and enable new privacy rights. 
We also streamlined our internal privacy review and 
assessment processes by introducing a self-service portal 
and dashboard with enhanced visibility for leaders. We 
continue to increase the reach of compliance processes 
and cross-team collaboration to consider potential 
privacy impacts when designing new business processes 
or solutions. We also participate in various governance 
processes for key practices such as data sharing and 
responsible use of AI. 
To further advance our privacy efforts, all corporate, 
technology and retail store associates in affected states 
who handle personal information complete general 
privacy awareness training annually. 
Associates working in certain areas of the business, 
such as Kroger Health, are required to complete 
additional privacy training to improve awareness 
and compliance when managing protected 
health information. Kroger has a comprehensive policy 
and procedures outlining compliance with the privacy 
provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and 
Accountability Act (HIPAA) of 1996.
For more information, please see Kroger’s customer-
facing Privacy Center, a portal embedded in our 
websites where consumers can find information about 
our privacy program and practices in one convenient 
location. The Privacy Center includes various privacy 
policies and notices, terms and conditions, frequently 
asked questions, and links to change marketing and 
communication preferences, make a privacy rights 
request, or find support and contact information.
Cybersecurity
Kroger implements cybersecurity practices appropriate 
to the nature of the information we collect and use—
including technical, administrative and operational 
procedures—to prevent loss, misuse or alteration. 
Securing our business information, intellectual property, 
customer and associate data, and technology systems 
is essential for the continuity of our businesses, meeting 
applicable regulatory requirements and maintaining the 
trust of our stakeholders. 
We have adopted enterprise cybersecurity risk 
mitigation and governance processes, outlined in 
detailed Kroger Cybersecurity Risk Management  
(CRM) and Third-Party CRM programs and a Cyber 
Incident Response Plan. Kroger CRM principles guide 
our approach to monitoring threats and vulnerabilities, 
and assessing and monitoring related controls. 
These efforts support the Corporate Information 
Security function, led by the chief information  
security officer and chief digital officer. 
Kroger’s cybersecurity policies, standards, processes 
and practices are integrated into the company’s 
overarching risk management system in an effort to 
enhance our ability to safeguard our operations and 
information, which includes quarterly cybersecurity 
reporting to the Board by senior leadership. 
We experience cybersecurity threats and incidents from 
time to time. We are not aware of any material risks from 
cybersecurity threats, including those that were the 
result of any previous cybersecurity incidents, that have 
materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially 
affect us, including our business strategy, our financial 
condition, results of operations or cash flows.
PeopleOur ApproachIntroduction Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 52AppendixGovernance

Public Policy Practices
Kroger actively engages in public policy and 
advocacy in ways that support the interests of our 
associates, customers, communities and company. 
We recognize that public policy and legislation at the 
federal, state and local levels can affect our business 
operations and our future ability to provide economic 
opportunities in our communities and create value for 
our shareholders.
Kroger’s Communications & Public Affairs team leads 
the government relations strategy and management 
approach to align with responsible business practices 
and reflect Our Values, with oversight from the Public 
Responsibilities Committee of the Board. Advocacy 
efforts cover a wide range of topics, including topics 
affecting people and our planet and aligned with our 
Zero Hunger | Zero Waste impact plan. These include 
policies that increase food safety, access and security 
while preserving affordability for our customers.
In 2024, we expanded Kroger’s Government 
Relations team to focus additional resources on 
federal policies and state legislative activity affecting 
our company. 
KroPAC
KroPAC is the company’s federal political action 
committee (PAC) funded by voluntary contributions 
from salaried management associates. PAC 
contributions are conducted in compliance with 
Federal Election Committee regulations governing 
solicitations. KroPAC makes contributions, where 
allowed, to federal, state and local political 
candidates, initiatives and organizations.
Other Contributions 
Occasionally, and where permitted by law,  
Kroger may make political contributions directly  
to state or local candidates using corporate funds 
and following relevant laws and regulations. 
We do not use corporate funds to air advertisements 
or finance specific activities in favor of or in 
opposition to particular candidates. For more  
details, see our Political Contribution Policy .
We comply with applicable laws and required 
reporting governing political contributions, and we 
publish a Political Contribution Report  that outlines 
the source of funds for contributions, giving by 
political party and giving by state. This report also 
includes a list of national trade associations of 
which Kroger is a member. These associations help 
represent the company’s perspectives to legislators 
and regulators; however, we do not always share 
the same perspectives on policy matters as these 
associations.
Marketing Practices  
& Product Labeling 
Kroger develops marketing communications and 
integrated campaigns to help customers make 
purchase decisions that are right for them. We follow 
applicable laws, regulations and best practices 
and strive to work with others that do the same. 
Our Brands , Marketing, Media Services, 84.51° and 
Merchandising teams lead this work in partnership 
with the Kroger Technology & Digital team, Ethics & 
Compliance team and our Privacy Office.
Our customers tell us they value receiving 
personalized recommendations that deliver savings 
on items they purchase regularly. We use information 
from our loyalty program to develop personalized 
recommendations every week to save our customers 
time and money and to enhance their shopping 
experience. We clearly share why and how we may 
collect and use this information in our customer-
facing Privacy Policy and Privacy Center.
To fulfill our brand promise—Fresh for Everyone—we 
promote healthy options like fresh, natural and organic 
choices across all customer segments and geographies. 
We work with national, regional and local media and 
advertising companies to connect with customers 
through traditional, digital and social media channels.
A defined request for information process governs how 
we select media companies. We ask specific questions 
to understand their privacy practices and how they 
create models and expand audiences without bias. In 
the increasingly complex media landscape and digital 
ecosystem, we ask vendors to share best practices in 
communicating organically with multicultural audiences.
Across our operations, we avoid targeted marketing  
to minors of products intended for adult purchase  
and consumption, including adult beverages and 
nicotine products.
Kroger Precision Marketing 
Kroger Precision Marketing (KPM) is Kroger’s retail 
media business. By applying 84.51° data science and 
Kroger’s popular loyalty card program, KPM connects 
customers to brands through advertising.
KPM is among a small group of media publishers to 
achieve Platinum certification from the Trustworthy 
Accountability Group. The certification demonstrates a 
commitment to upholding brand safety, eliminating ad 
fraud and combating malware. In 2023, KPM became 
the first retail media business to join Ad Net Zero, 
a trade association focused on sustainability in the 
advertising industry.
Product Labeling
Kroger adheres to the food labeling requirements 
outlined by the FDA and the U.S. Department of 
Agriculture (USDA), including the USDA’s Agricultural 
Marketing Service, which oversees the National 
Organic Program and food grading system, and the 
Food Safety Inspection Service, which regulates the 
labeling of meat, poultry and shelled egg products. 
We also adhere to the Federal Trade Commission’s 
Fair Packaging and Labeling Act, which requires that 
package labels identify the commodity; the name 
and place of business of the manufacturer, packer or 
distributor; and the net quantity in weight, measure 
or numerical count. For general merchandise items, 
we adhere to the requirements and guidelines set 
by the Consumer Products Safety Commission and 
state regulations to provide consumers with safe 
use information. 
Labeling practices for items we sell in stores and 
online are overseen by several teams, including 
CFT, Ethics & Compliance, Merchandising and Our 
Brands. We focus first on products in the Our Brands  
portfolio, including Kroger-manufactured items and 
other items sourced or produced under contract with 
third-party manufacturers. For Our Brands , Kroger 
aims to develop accurate on-pack messages and 
labels that include required information and, where 
relevant, clear and supported claims to help inform 
customers of product safety information or benefits, 
such as allergens or health, nutrition or environmental 
attributes.
We expect consumer packaged goods and national 
brand suppliers to be responsible and accountable 
for complying with relevant labeling requirements. 
Additional information about product nutrition and 
sustainability is available in the Health & Nutrition  and 
Supply Chain Sustainability  sections.
PeopleOur ApproachIntroduction Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 53AppendixGovernance

Retail Security
Kroger monitors and implements best practices in 
associate training, preparedness and prevention for our 
stores across the country. Safety and loss prevention 
teams in Retail Operations and Supply Chain functions 
lead efforts to enhance safety and security with 
oversight from Kroger’s senior leadership team and 
Public Responsibilities Committee of the Board.
Reflecting the ongoing safety incidents and threats 
across the retail industry, we continue to evolve our 
approach to increasing safety for our associates 
and customers.
Personal Safety
Working collaboratively with law enforcement and other 
authorities, we monitor risk and take proactive steps 
to protect our associates, customers and communities. 
We incorporate safety principles and best practices 
into facility and parking lot designs, including mobile 
security units and real-time video monitoring to prevent 
and deter safety incidents. Through a combination of 
Kroger and third-party services, we provide security 
presence at relevant stores, depending on local needs.
We also create and implement training programs to 
foster safe and secure workplaces. We require associates 
to carefully review a Personal Safety training program 
first introduced company-wide several years ago. This 
training focuses on increasing awareness of what to do in 
the event of an active assailant in our facilities. 
If unexpected events occur on-site, we focus on 
how to care for our associates holistically, both at 
home and at work. Kroger’s comprehensive benefits 
include free counseling and access to a well-being 
assistant 24 hours a day, seven days a week. We also 
provide specialized toolkits and training for leaders 
to understand how best to support their teams and 
have thoughtful conversations with associates about 
their well-being.
Preventing Theft & Loss
Kroger’s Asset Protection team employs sophisticated 
systems to minimize theft from our stores and reduce 
product losses. This includes technology aimed at 
reducing loss at self-checkout stations and other 
innovative systems. 
Alongside the Buy Safe America Coalition, Kroger has 
been on the forefront of supporting legislation that 
curbs the impact of organized retail crime. Organized 
retail crime continues to plague the industry through 
large-scale theft of items, which are often sold on 
eCommerce platforms without verification of how the 
seller obtained the goods. We believe our work helps 
protect our associates and customers while advancing 
safer communities. 
We continue to work with national, state and local 
elected officials to stop crime before it starts by 
establishing rigorous systems and processes to 
address organized retail crime holistically.  
Transparency for Consumers
Kroger also supported the Integrity, Notification  
and Fairness in Online Retail Marketplaces for 
Consumers Act (INFORM Consumers Act) as part  
of the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2023.  
The INFORM Consumers Act is designed to make it 
easier for shoppers to identify exactly who they are 
buying from and make it harder for deceitful sellers  
to avoid identification.
Firearm Policy
Kroger does not sell firearms, and we follow local 
laws regarding open carry policies. We also ask 
our associates and customers not to bring firearms 
to Kroger facilities, even in communities where 
it’s permitted. 
PeopleOur ApproachIntroduction Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 54AppendixGovernance

puare
Kroger is part of—and dependent on—global food and consumer 
goods supply chains. We aim to do our part to build more 
responsible, resilient supply chains for people and our planet. 
Responsible Supply Chain & Sourcing
Our Approach
We believe responsible and more sustainable sourcing 
enables us to continue offering our customers a wide 
range of affordable products. We manage sourcing 
topics and issues within the context of our business 
and Thriving Together strategies, recognizing there 
may be trade-offs and unintended consequences of 
specific single-topic decisions or policy changes. 
Kroger’s centralized Merchandising team selects the 
desired product assortment by category and works 
closely with Sourcing leaders to determine and review 
potential suppliers, sourcing regions and contract 
terms. Our management approach to responsible 
sourcing is led by a cross-functional Responsible 
Sourcing Steering Committee comprising leaders in 
Ethics & Compliance, Merchandising, Sourcing and 
Communications & Public Affairs. Kroger’s senior 
leadership team and the Public Responsibilities 
Committee of the Board provide additional oversight. 
Information about product sustainability and supplier 
expectations is included in the Planet section . 
Managing Our Supply Chain 
Our customers trust that the products we offer come 
from reputable suppliers who operate responsibly. We 
have relationships with many strategic, long-standing 
vendors, and we also welcome new vendors to bid for 
business. Kroger’s Sourcing and Merchandising teams 
lead processes to identify, evaluate and onboard 
new suppliers to advance progress on our social and 
environmental goals. 
Kroger has a long-standing focus on responsibly 
sourcing products to manage and mitigate potential 
supply chain risks to people and our planet. As a 
retailer with thousands of products in wide-ranging 
categories across our stores and seamless ecosystem, 
responsible sourcing discussions increasingly include 
both social and environmental topics. 
Supplier Expectations 
An evolving risk-based approach informs program 
management and responsible sourcing policies, 
practices and oversight. All suppliers, including 
those providing Our Brands  ingredients and finished 
products, are expected to:
•  Comply with the Kroger Vendor Code of Conduct , 
including establishing effective management systems 
to maintain safe, fair working environments in 
facilities and manage risks
•  Accurately disclose and update production facilities 
and locations in Kroger’s Supplier Hub centralized 
vendor management system
•  Respond promptly to Kroger requests for information 
about potential allegations and issues
•  Complete and submit required documentation, 
assessments and certifications upon the required 
schedule and agree to additional compliance 
assessments upon request
Many large, established Kroger suppliers already have 
robust management systems in place to comply with 
applicable laws, regulations and the Code of Conduct. 
We recognize that newer or smaller suppliers may need 
additional resources to clarify expectations and enhance 
their management systems in ways that work for their 
business. We welcome the opportunity to engage 
and include new brands, local farmers and growers, 
diverse-owned businesses and others to help them 
operate responsibly and have a positive impact in our 
communities.
Vendor Code of Conduct
Suppliers are expected to comply with the Kroger Vendor 
Code of Conduct as a condition of doing business with 
us. The Code of Conduct, which outlines expectations 
for responsibly managing operations and respecting 
the rights of workers, is informed by internationally 
agreed-upon standards, including the United Nations 
Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the 
International Bill of Human Rights and the International 
Labour Organization Declaration on Fundamental 
Principles and Rights at Work.
We continue to develop new training resources for our 
leaders and associates who are involved in the selection 
and oversight of suppliers through our responsible 
sourcing management systems and practices. As part of 
our Social Compliance Program, Kroger published a new 
Social Compliance Assessment Guide  to help suppliers 
understand Kroger’s expectations in respecting human 
rights across our supply chain. 
Material Topics 
RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN & SOURCING
HUMAN RIGHTS
ANIMAL WELFARE
Select Responsible Sourcing 
Policies 
Kroger Vendor Code of Conduct
Social Compliance Assessment Guide
Human Rights Policy 
No-Deforestation Commitment:  
Our Brands 
Seafood Sustainability Policy 
Goal to Protect Pollinators & Biodiversity 
Animal Welfare Policy
PeopleOur ApproachIntroduction Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 55AppendixGovernance

Kroger’s centralized Supplier Hub vendor management 
system houses detailed information on suppliers’ 
compliance with Kroger’s policies and U.S. laws 
and regulations related to our business. It provides 
a mechanism for alerting teams and addressing 
suppliers not in compliance. Continual enhancements 
to the system will further improve oversight of items in 
production at suppliers’ facilities.
In 2024, we continued to invest resources to enhance 
several responsible sourcing processes and tools 
to improve visibility to supplier, vendor and facility 
risk and performance over time. These tools will 
also help inform future decisions about product 
selection, sourcing regions and more to improve 
supplier accountability. 
Supplier Inclusion 
At Kroger, we know that a diverse supply chain 
strengthens our business, improves our customers’ 
experience and supports our communities. We take 
an intentional approach to fostering the growth and 
development of certified, diverse-owned business 
enterprises through our Supplier Inclusion Program. 
This program streamlines Kroger’s procurement 
process, helping connect businesses of all sizes and 
sectors with the appropriate decision-makers within  
our company. During the past 30 years, the program 
has played an important role in developing Kroger’s 
supplier network by helping businesses:
•  Determine if their products and/or services align 
with our company’s strategies
•  Understand our customers’ needs and trends in  
the marketplace
•  Establish relationships and grow their impact across 
our communities
Assessing Risk
Kroger works with thousands of vendors to support our 
associates, serve our customers and keep our business 
running smoothly every day. We use data and insights 
to maintain and enhance management systems that 
help identify and mitigate potential and evolving risks in 
our supply chain. 
Kroger’s risk-based approach includes our policies, 
goals and expectations for vendors and others who do 
business with us. We also have long-standing programs 
in place to manage sourcing for higher-risk commodities, 
like seafood, palm oil and more, and we continually 
review emerging issues. We have an established process 
for reviewing issues that may arise in the supply chain. 
We believe in the corrective action planning process 
to help suppliers build capacity to improve operating 
performance and correct issues wherever possible. If 
necessary, we stop doing business with suppliers who 
repeatedly violate our Code of Conduct and sourcing 
policies and fail to follow through on time-bound 
corrective action plans. 
We offer resources and self-assessment tools to help 
suppliers of all sizes understand our expectations, 
evaluate where they are today and build more 
effective management systems for their business 
where appropriate. 
Kroger has systems and processes in place to monitor 
known and emerging risks across product categories 
and sourcing regions. Our Responsible Sourcing 
Steering Committee monitors and manages critical 
topics, trends and risks for people and our planet. An 
extended team of internal and external subject matter 
experts also provides enhanced monitoring for topics 
like human rights, seafood sustainability, chemical 
safety, apparel production and more. 
Industry Collaboration
Kroger is a long-standing member of the Billion Dollar 
Roundtable, which promotes supply chain diversity 
excellence and includes member companies with 
a documented supply chain spend of $1 billion or 
more annually. 
In 2025, Kroger is collaborating with the Women’s 
Business Enterprise National Council (WBENC) to 
facilitate the Industry Accelerator | Kroger Feeding 
Growth Opportunities program for women-owned 
businesses. This is the second year we are supporting 
an accelerator program of this kind that combines 
education, mentorship and pitching. 
The accelerator is a multi-week, cohort-style program 
that culminates in a live virtual pitch competition. The 
program includes a public session with information about 
doing business with Kroger plus coaching, mentoring 
and capacity-building sessions for the participants with 
leaders from our Sourcing and Merchandising teams. 
Our policy is that certified diverse-owned businesses 
have the opportunity to participate and compete for 
Kroger contracts. A diverse business is a company that 
is certified as being owned, managed and controlled by 
diverse individuals who meet specific criteria. We value 
these relationships because their products and services 
are often unique and popular among our customers. 
We thoroughly review the certification status for diverse-
owned businesses and offer certified diverse suppliers an 
opportunity to be considered and compete for contracts.
In 2024, Kroger’s total spend with diverse-owned 
suppliers was $3.13 billion, a slight decrease from the 
prior year. A total of 837 certified diverse suppliers, 
including 160 new certified diverse suppliers, were 
part of the portfolio in 2024. Our year-over-year 
performance reflects the results of our improved 
supplier verification process.  
As Kroger continues to grow, we are committed to 
doing our part to ensure that diverse-owned businesses 
have equal footing when working with our family of 
companies, shaping our customers’ experience and 
growing their business with us. More information about 
Supplier Inclusion is available online.
2024 $3.1B
2023
2022
$3.6B
$3.5B
Annual Spend with Diverse-Owned Businesses
2022–2024
PeopleOur ApproachIntroduction Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 56AppendixGovernance

Human Rights
Kroger cares about the rights of those with whom we 
work and rely on to operate our business every day, 
including our own associates and other workers who 
produce a wide range of products for our customers and 
communities. We continually evolve our management 
approach, policies and programs to respect human 
rights as an element of responsible sourcing and supply 
chain accountability.
We outline Kroger’s commitment to—and governance 
of—human rights in our Vendor Code of Conduct and 
Human Rights Policy. Our approach and these policies 
were developed with insights from internal and external 
subject matter experts, investors, NGOs and others. 
The Public Responsibilities and Audit Committees 
of the Board oversee progress on human rights and 
social compliance.
Information about how we support and respect the 
rights of our associates, including freedom of 
association, is included in the Labor Relations section .
Approach to Due Diligence
We recognize the role that due diligence plays in 
supplier oversight and accountability to prevent and 
mitigate adverse impacts to workers in our supply 
chain. Working closely with LRQA, a third-party global 
assurance partner, we have a dedicated team that 
oversees suppliers’ compliance with established policies 
and programs. Last year, additional LRQA resources 
enabled a more systematic, risk-based approach to 
human rights due diligence.
The key elements of our human rights due diligence 
approach include:
•  Communicating clear expectations for suppliers to 
comply with our Vendor Code of Conduct
•  Identifying and segmenting supply chain risks
•  Implementing our social compliance program, 
including supplier assessments, issue escalation paths 
and the post-assessment process
•  Engaging suppliers directly with internal 
Merchandising, Sourcing, Compliance and 
Communications & Public Affairs teams to manage 
issues, as appropriate
Worker Voice
We believe worker voice mechanisms, such as 
confidential helplines, are an important tool for 
respecting human rights. These programs offer  
trusted, language-accessible ways for workers to 
express concerns about their work environment and 
experience without retaliation.
The Audit Committee of Kroger’s Board established  
the Kroger Helpline—a toll-free phone number  
(800-689-4609) and website ( www.Ethicspoint.com) 
to submit concerns. Users of the Kroger Helpline may 
choose to remain anonymous.
We encourage suppliers to establish or support worker 
voice mechanisms, monitor reports and implement 
time-bound corrective action plans, particularly 
when operating in or sourcing from higher-risk areas. 
We expect our suppliers to proactively develop and 
implement the necessary tools and resources to 
promote a safe and healthy workplace environment.
Impact Assessments
Human rights impact assessments (HRIAs) are another 
tool in due diligence processes. Kroger has completed 
two impact assessments to date, both conducted by 
third-party researchers who visited production sites, 
interviewed rightsholders and considered unique risks 
for female workers. As a follow-up to one HRIA, we 
conducted a worker voice mechanism pilot at select 
facilities in collaboration with other stakeholders and 
suppliers. We share an overview of the pilot and lessons 
learned in our HRIA Action Plan & insights Summary of  
the Worker Voice Pilot in India .
Social Compliance Program
Kroger’s Social Compliance Program is designed to 
respect the rights of workers in our supply chain by 
assessing suppliers’ alignment with the Kroger Vendor 
Code of Conduct. We believe suppliers are ultimately 
responsible for managing human rights risks in their  
own operations and facilities in their supply chain.  
Our Sourcing team oversees the social compliance 
program and works with third-party experts to 
implement assessments and measure progress.  
We aim to build strong supplier relationships during 
onboarding and through regular meetings, site visits, 
surveys and other tools.
All vendors and suppliers are included in the Social 
Compliance Program. A vendor is an organization with 
which we have an agreement to provide products and/
or services and may or may not own the facilities that 
produce the goods. A supplier is an organization that 
owns a facility that manufactures or produces goods 
that Kroger purchases through the vendor.
Social compliance assessments are required for direct-
import national brand products where Kroger is the 
importer of record. We also require social audits for 
raw materials and ingredients used in Kroger-operated 
manufacturing plants and Kroger-labeled products.
Zero-tolerance findings such as bribery, forced labor 
and child labor result in immediate investigation 
and suspension or termination. Critical issues tied 
to responsible labor practices, business ethics and 
workplace hazards require timely corrective actions.
See more information about our program in Kroger’s 
Social Compliance Assessment Guide  online.
Progress Highlights
Kroger works with LRQA to manage key elements of our 
social compliance program and facility assessments. As 
we continue to evolve our program, we completed the 
following process improvements in 2024:
•  Expanded our program capabilities, including risk 
segmentation, social compliance assessments and 
clearly defined zero-tolerance and critical issues to 
enable faster follow-up
•  Published a new Social Compliance Assessment Guide  
to clarify expectations for suppliers and outline our 
program scope, tools and processes
•  Strengthened supplier transparency through our 
centralized Supplier Hub, including required facility 
disclosures, compliance status tracking and defined 
consequences for non-compliance
•  Improved corrective action plan (CAP) quality and 
closure rates by emphasizing root-cause analysis and 
clear ownership for time-bound action plans
•  Implemented a mutual recognition program for select 
facilities through which we accept eligible audits and 
certifications from other programs
PeopleOur ApproachIntroduction Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 57AppendixGovernance

Risk-Based Approach 
Kroger works with LRQA to review and segment 
supply chain risks and prioritize social assessments 
based on social and geographic factors. We classify 
vendors into four categories—priority, specialized, 
moderate and minimum—based on a combination 
of inherent and managed risks. We use LRQA’s EiQ 
platform to benchmark social risk in near-real time. 
This enables Kroger to segment facilities using two 
dimensions: risk exposure level (high, medium, low) 
and ability to influence risk (high, medium, low). This 
risk classification informs decisions and next steps in 
sourcing and supplier engagement. 
This risk segmentation helps determine the most 
suitable assessment tools and support resources for 
different sectors and geographies. It also enables more 
strategic interventions and effective use of capacity-
building programs, especially for sites in priority and 
moderate risk segments. After careful review, we may 
continue working with vendors sourcing from higher-
risk locations to meet our customers’ needs. In this 
case, our program includes increased oversight and 
engagement with the vendors. 
Assessment Process 
While social compliance assessments are not the 
solution to worker-related issues in global supply chains, 
they are a foundational element and provide important 
insights. We use a suite of assessment tools tailored to 
facility-specific risks, including the LRQA-owned ERSA 
3.0 comprehensive responsible sourcing assessment, 
worker sentiment surveys and worker voice helplines. 
These tools enable Kroger to select appropriate 
assessments for certain sectors instead of a one-size-
fits-all approach. 
LRQA conducts these assessments, including the 
standard ERSA 3.0 audit. In 2024, Kroger adopted this 
standard ERSA tool, which LRQA recently updated 
to include more than 230 additional data points and 
strengthen standards in certain areas. Outside of the 
defined Social Compliance Program scope, Kroger’s 
general merchandise suppliers may be subject to 
facility audits managed by Li & Fung, Ltd. 
In 2024, more than 83% of ERSA assessments were 
conducted at higher-risk facilities in our supply chain. 
We conducted the highest number of assessments 
at suppliers’ production sites located in China, India, 
Vietnam and Thailand. Of all facilities assessed 
last year, 16% were approved, 76% were approved 
with CAPs and 8% had findings that required 
significant improvement.  
We also developed a mutual recognition program 
for select facilities based on risk analyses and by 
invitation. For produce and/or floral vendors, for 
example, Kroger will accept Fair Trade USA, Equitable 
Food Initiative or Florverde certifications and the 
Ethical Charter Implementation Program. 
Corrective Action Plans
When assessments identify critical issues, we require 
suppliers to develop time-bound CAPs and report 
progress. As part of our program evolution, we are 
improving how we manage the CAP process and 
providing resources to help suppliers improve their 
management systems. In 2024, Kroger started using 
the LRQA EiQ Assess platform for CAPs to more 
effectively track next steps with facilities. 
Lack of transparency during the assessment process 
may be an indicator of more egregious issues, so 
we make our expectations of transparency clear to 
all suppliers. When suppliers have repeated non-
transparency findings in their audits, we work with them 
directly to resolve the issue or terminate the supply 
agreement, if the issue persists. Assessment findings 
that fall into the most severe category include evidence 
of forced labor, child labor or attempted bribery. 
Depending on the situation, we may suspend or 
terminate the supply contract if alerted to these 
findings, following our established escalation paths. 
Kroger monitors CAP closure rates—the percentage of 
CAPs that are successfully closed in the agreed-upon 
time—as an indicator of program effectiveness. In 
2024, our CAP closure rate was 95%, an improvement 
from the prior year. As part of our evolving program, 
we shortened the time for facilities to submit a CAP 
by 50% to encourage faster corrective actions, and we 
updated our CAP system to be more user-friendly for 
suppliers and facility managers. We also offer digital 
learning courses to increase vendors’ awareness of 
risks and enhance their management systems.
Social Compliance Risk SegmentationRisk Exposure
Ability to Influence
MINIMUM
Lower risk and  
less important
MODERATE
Medium risk and  
less important
SPECIALIZED
Lower risk and  
more important
PRIORITY
High risk and  
more important
Ethical Charter Implementation 
Program: Produce & Floral Suppliers
Kroger remains focused on advancing responsible 
labor practices across the fresh produce and 
floral supply chain through the Ethical Charter 
Implementation Program (ECIP). Kroger 
encourages growers to join the ECIP, which is 
grounded in the Ethical Charter on Responsible 
Labor Practices, endorsed by the International 
Fresh Produce Association and managed by the 
Ethical Food Initiative (EFI). 
As a founding member of the Ethical Charter, 
Kroger helped shape ECIP’s development with 
other retailers and food buyers. Since the launch 
of ECIP in November 2023, we have encouraged 
growers’ participation and adoption of Ethical 
Charter principles. This includes using the ECIP 
Learn, Assess and Benchmark (LAB) platform. 
In 2024, the Kroger team dedicated significant time 
to onboarding suppliers to ECIP. Today, the majority 
of our top 100 produce suppliers by volume and 
spend have joined ECIP. Our engagement helped 
suppliers begin self-assessments through the 
confidential LAB platform, which is designed to 
promote thoughtful internal review rather than 
compliance audits. Feedback from suppliers 
indicates that Kroger’s outreach helped growers 
understand our expectations and engage more 
meaningfully with the platform.
Total ECIP membership includes more than 266 
suppliers and 1,000 growers that work with Kroger 
and other buyers.
We are also an active member of ECIP’s Advisory 
Group, working closely with other buyers, 
suppliers and EFI to improve the platform, 
increase engagement and address evolving 
labor challenges. 
EiQ also supports active monitoring of social 
compliance assessment progress, CAPs, worker 
sentiment surveys and self-assessment questionnaires. 
Through LRQA’s Sentinel feature, Kroger proactively 
tracks global risk alerts and engages vendors when risk 
factors change, enabling timely response planning.
PeopleOur ApproachIntroduction Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 58AppendixGovernance

Animal Welfare 
The welfare of animals in our protein supply chain has 
long been a priority for Kroger. We aim to advance the 
welfare of animals that produce food while balancing 
other strategic priorities that affect people and our 
planet. We work with suppliers, animal welfare experts 
and other stakeholders to advance standards that 
protect workers and animals and that preserve access 
to affordable proteins for our customers.
The company’s Corporate Food Technology team 
leads our approach to animal welfare in the context of 
animal agriculture and sustainable protein production, 
with oversight from senior leaders and the Public 
Responsibilities Committee of the Board.
Our Approach 
We outline our approach in Kroger’s Animal Welfare 
Policy, which was developed with insights from internal 
and external subject matter experts. Our policy reflects 
the Five Domains of Animal Welfare, an internationally 
respected approach that emphasizes current animal 
science and outcome-based standards.
Our primary focus remains advancing welfare for 
laying hens, pigs, broiler chickens and dairy cattle in 
ways that preserve affordability for our customers. 
Kroger is not directly involved in raising or harvesting any 
animals in our protein supply chain. We require suppliers 
to adopt industry-accepted animal welfare standards and 
provide welfare audit results. We comply with applicable 
laws and regulations. 
We participate in industry groups and collaborative 
platforms to stay informed of key developments in animal 
welfare and protein production. This includes the Global 
Coalition for Animal Welfare (GCAW), a multi-stakeholder 
group of protein producers, foodservice companies, 
restaurants and retailers. GCAW is administered by a 
secretariat and has dedicated working groups to advance 
welfare for laying hens, pigs and broiler chickens.
Laying Hens
Kroger is working with suppliers, animal welfare experts 
and other stakeholders to support the transition to 
cage-free or higher-welfare laying hen housing systems 
over time. We will continue to offer a variety of eggs 
to ensure that affordable, healthy protein options are 
accessible for all Kroger customers.
Given the current rate of industry progress and our 
customers’ desire for affordability, Kroger plans to 
transition about 70% of eggs sold (by units) to cage-free 
or higher-welfare standards by 2030. We established the 
following tentative milestones along the way: 2022: 33% 
(achieved); 2024: 41% (achieved); 2025: 54%; and 2028: 
61%. We will determine whether continued progress 
beyond 2030 is feasible and if so, by when, based on 
customer insights, regulatory timelines and industry 
transition. Kroger plans to invest about $45 million 
in support of this roadmap, including investments 
in sourcing agreements, pricing, promotions 
and merchandising. 
In 2024, cage-free eggs represented 55.9% of total egg 
revenue company-wide (2023: 54.1%). On a volume basis, 
units of shell eggs sourced from laying hens in cage-
free housing systems increased to 43.3% in 2024 (2023: 
36.1%).1 We exceeded our 2024 roadmap milestone 
despite the widespread impacts from avian influenza, 
which significantly affected domestic flocks, available 
egg supplies, and wholesale and retail prices. 
Kroger continues to encourage our customers to trade 
up to higher-welfare egg options where feasible. Based 
on availability, we offer affordable Simple Truth® cage-
free eggs, promote cage-free or higher-welfare eggs 
in weekly advertising circulars, and dedicate preferred 
shelf space to higher-welfare options. 
In 2022, Kroger and Kipster Farms, the innovative 
egg production system founded in the Netherlands, 
introduced next-level cage-free eggs to customers in 
the U.S. The Simple Truth® + Kipster eggs are currently 
available for customers in western U.S. states. 
Late last year, the Kroger team introduced a pilot 
to test at-shelf signs that more clearly explain 
different hen housing systems and egg carton labels 
for customers. The signs included descriptions for 
conventional, cage-free, Simple Truth® + Kipster, free-
range, pasture-raised and organic eggs. 
Our goal was to learn whether more descriptive at-shelf 
signs would motivate customers to buy higher-welfare 
egg options. We planned to evaluate test results after 
six months; however, supply chain impacts from avian 
influenza in 2025 affected our customers’ purchasing 
behavior and test results. We will conduct another test 
in early 2026 if egg supply is stable after the winter 
avian influenza season. 
Pigs
We encourage suppliers to use group housing systems 
for sows to shorten time in individual stalls, enhance 
health and welfare, protect workers and preserve 
access to affordable fresh pork for our customers. We 
define group housing as systems where sows are moved 
to group pens for the middle phase of gestation as early 
as possible, no later than six weeks after breeding. 
Kroger’s goal is to source 100% of fresh pork from 
sows in group housing systems by the end of 2025. 
We established the following milestones: 65% by 2023 
(achieved); 75% by 2024 (achieved); and 100% by 2025. 
In 2024, 90% of our fresh pork volume was sourced 
from sows in group housing, exceeding our milestone. 
We are on track to achieve 100% by the end of 2025. 
Our current goal does not include processed pork 
items like bacon and cooked ham. Focusing on fresh 
pork is positively affecting other pork products. Due to 
our current labeling practices, we are unable to report 
revenue from fresh pork from sows in group housing 
systems as a percentage of total fresh pork revenue. 
Broiler Chickens 
Kroger aimed to achieve progress on four welfare 
enhancements for at least 50% of our Simple Truth 
Organic® and Simple Truth Natural® fresh chicken by 
the end of 2024. The following are our 2024 year-
end results: 
•  Prohibit broiler cages (achieved)
•  Maximum stocking density of 6.0 pounds per square 
foot (36.6%)
•  Enriched environments, including litter and lighting 
(71.4%)
•  Processing in a manner that avoids pre-stun 
handling and uses a controlled atmosphere system 
(CAS) to induce an irreversible stun (16.9%)
Progress on our broiler chicken welfare goals was 
affected by producers’ slower-than-anticipated pace of 
infrastructure investments, as well as their heightened 
focus on preventing the spread of avian influenza 
among domestic flocks. 
Dairy Cattle 
Cooperatives supplying milk to Kroger’s manufacturing 
plants and Our Brands grocery assortment must be in 
good standing with the National Dairy Farmers Assuring 
Responsible Management (FARM) Animal Welfare 
Program. We encourage suppliers to adopt updated 
versions of the FARM Animal Care standard. FARM 
Animal Care Version 5, released in 2024, focuses on 
refining and clarifying previous standards surrounding 
euthanasia, fitness for transport, calf management and 
continuing education, among others. 
Kroger is a signatory to the U.S. Dairy Stewardship 
Commitment, supporting efforts to minimize dairy 
production impacts on people and our planet. 
 1.  2023 volume figure is restated from 33.6% to 36.1% to reflect revised data
PeopleOur ApproachIntroduction Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 59AppendixGovernance

Appendix
In This Section 
61 Key Performance Data Tables
65 Material Topics Summary
67 TCFD Index
68 SASB Index
70 2024 Supplemental Data Tables
71 Forward-Looking Statements
60
2025 Kroger Responsible Business ReportPeopleOur ApproachIntroduction Planet Governance Appendix

Key Performance 
Data Tables
The Kroger team recognizes our unique role in the future of food. We are helping build 
a more resilient and equitable food system that preserves access and affordability—
today and in the future—by advancing more responsible and sustainable production 
methods for the food and consumer goods on which we all depend. 
Goals & Metrics 2022 2023 2024 Baseline Target Year Status
Associate Wages & Benefits
Cumulative investment in our associates’ compensation and benefits $1.9B $2.4B $2.7B 2018 –
Increase average retail hourly wages and benefits over time
Over $18/hour; over 
$23.50/hour including 
benefits
Over $19/hour; nearly 
$25/hour including 
benefits
Nearly $19.50/hour; 
Nearly $25.35/hour 
including benefits
– –
Food Access & Affordability 
Increase annual sales of affordable, quality Our Brands portfolio of products $30B $31B $32B – –
Introduce new affordable Our Brands products, including fresh items 680 700+ 900+ – –
Annual total meals donated to our communities—food and charitable donations 599M 455M 518M – –
Cumulative total meals donated since 2017—food and donations 2.9B 3.4B 3.9B 2017 2025
Donate surplus fresh food from stores and facilities to our communities through  
Kroger’s Zero Hunger | Zero Waste Food Rescue program 106M pounds 114M pounds 119M pounds – –
100% of retail stores actively donating surplus fresh food 100% 100% 100% 2017 2025
Charitable Giving
Total annual charitable giving to our communities $336M $329M $346M – –
Share of total charitable giving donated to national and local organizations helping end hunger $253M $256M $276M – –
Supplier Diversity & Inclusion: Certified diverse-owned suppliers have the opportunity to participate and compete for contracts 
Annual spend with certified diverse-owned businesses1 $3.5B $3.6B $3.1B – –
People: Serving Our Associates, Customers and Communities
M = million  B = billion
1. Reflects restated results after comprehensive review of supplier certification status
AchievedDid not 
achieve On trackArea of focus Achieved ahead 
of schedule
Significant 
progressStatus key
PeopleOur ApproachIntroduction Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 61Governance Appendix

1. Scope 3 emissions are reported in the Climate Impact and Supplemental Data sections of the report
2. Progress reflects calendar year data with the exception of construction waste, which reflects fiscal year
3. We calculated our first packaging baseline for Our Brands products in 2022 for the 2021 performance year. The current dataset is focused on Our Brands food; health and 
beauty; cleaning; and deli and bakery products. We continue to expand on and improve our packaging dataset, particularly as we prepare for legislated reporting in the future. 
Narrative about additional stated packaging sustainability goals is included in the Waste & Circularity section of the report
4. Moving forward, we will calculate and report on goal progress every other year. The company has dedicated resources to preparing for extended producer responsibility 
reporting and other packaging legislation preparation. We will report on 2025 progress in the 2026 Responsible Business report
5. We are establishing the implementation process for this goal and will report our progress in future years
Planet: Protecting Natural Resources for a Brighter Future
Goals & Metrics 2022 2023 2024 Baseline Target Year Status
Climate Impact1
Achieve a 30% cumulative reduction in GHG emissions  
(percentage reduction from baseline; annual total Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions)
15.2%
4,894,705 MTCO2e
12.0%
5,081,613 MTCO2e
14.9%
4,916,373 MTCO2e 2018 2030
Waste & Circularity
Operational Waste
Achieve 90%+ waste diversion from landfills company-wide2 82% 82% 85% 2016 2025
Food Waste 
Reduce total food waste generated in retail stores by 50% cumulatively from 2017 baseline  
(cumulative reduction; annual tons generated)
26.2%
245,289 tons
20.0%
265,773 tons 
3.8%
319,720 tons 2017 2025
Achieve 95% diversion of remaining retail food waste from landfill 45.9% 51.7% 58.2% 2017 2025
95% or more of retail stores participating in food waste recycling programs 92% 95% 97% 2017 2025
Our Brands Product Packaging Sustainability 3
Seek to achieve 100% recyclable, compostable and/or reusable packaging 37% 52% Assessed periodically4 2020 2030
Increase recycled content in packaging so Our Brands portfolio collectively contains at least 10% recycled content 18% 10% Assessed periodically4 2020 2030
Biodiversity & Resource Conservation
Pollinators
100% of fresh produce suppliers to implement Integrated Pest Management practices
for all products supplied to Kroger as demonstrated by one of the accepted certifications – – – 5 – 2028; 2030
AchievedDid not 
achieve On trackArea of focus Achieved ahead 
of schedule
Significant 
progressStatus key
PeopleOur ApproachIntroduction Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 62Governance Appendix

Goals & Metrics 2022 2023 2024 Baseline Target Year Status
Seafood Sustainability1
Source 95% or more of wild-caught seafood from fisheries that are Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) certified, in MSC full assessment, 
in comprehensive fishery improvement projects or certified by other Global Sustainable Seafood Initiative-recognized programs 95% 96% 97% 2020 Ongoing
Preferentially source wild-caught seafood volume from fisheries that are MSC certified 76% 80% 80% 2020 Ongoing
Source 95% or more of farm-raised seafood from farms that are Best Aquaculture Practices 2-Star or greater certified, Aquaculture 
Stewardship Council certified or GLOBALG.A.P. certified 99% 98% 99% 2020 Ongoing
Source 100% of shelf-stable tuna from companies aligned with the International Seafood Sustainability Foundation2 98% 99% 98% 2020 Ongoing
Source 20% of Our Brands shelf-stable tuna from fisheries that are MSC certified 17.7% 7.3% 24% 2020 2025
No-Deforestation Commitments 3 
Source palm oil, palm kernel oil and palm oil derivatives in Our Brands products from sources certified to the Roundtable on Sustainable 
Palm Oil supply chain standard (percentage of ingredient volume that is from certified sources) 96% 98% 94% N/A Ongoing
Used post-consumer recycled content fiber and/or virgin fiber certified to FSC, SFI or PEFC standard
Kroger plants (percentage of packaging procured, by weight, from certified sources and/or including recycled content) 95% 99% 94.2% N/A 2025
All Our Brands household paper products and paper product packaging (percentage of material, by weight, from certified sources and/
or including recycled content)
Household: 93% 
Packaging: 45%
Household: 94% 
Packaging: 45% Assessed periodically4 N/A 2030
Use deforestation-free soy-based ingredients in Our Brands products
Kroger plants (percentage, by weight, from no-/low-risk countries) 99% 99% 99.9% N/A 2025
All third-party produced Our Brands products (percentage, by weight, from no-/low-risk countries) Assessed periodically 93%5 Assessed periodically4 N/A 2030
Use deforestation-free beef-based ingredients in Our Brands products and fresh beef
Beef in fresh meat department and Kroger plants (percentage, by weight, harvested in no-/low-risk countries; born, raised and 
harvested in no-/low-risk countries) 99% (78%) 97% (94%) 97.6% (93.6%) N/A 2025
All third-party produced Our Brands products (percentage, by weight, from no-/low-risk countries) Assessed periodically 50%6 Assessed periodically4 N/A 2030
1. Progress reflects calendar year data. In 2024, we revised the goals to make them ongoing so that we continue to strive for and maintain 95% or greater alignment with 
Kroger’s Seafood Sustainability Policy for our Seafood department
2. This is an enduring commitment that we continue to maintain. Percentages are measured by volume 
3. No-deforestation goal progress reflects calendar year data with the exception of our packaging baseline calculation, which reflects fiscal year data. Data reflects 
responses received from suppliers and is to the best of their knowledge. In some cases, proxy data from prior year may be used
4.  Moving forward, Kroger will report progress on 2030 no-deforestation commitments for beef, soy and paper ingredients every other year. We will report 2025 progress in 
the 2026 Responsible Business report  
5.    In 2023, 93% of soy-based ingredients in Kroger third-party-manufactured Our Brands products were from low- or no-deforestation risk regions, and 2% were from 
potentially high-risk regions. Suppliers of products with the remaining 5% of ingredients could not provide visibility to the country of origin
6.     In 2023, 50% of beef-based ingredients in Kroger third-party-manufactured Our Brands products were from low- or no-deforestation risk regions, and 49% were from 
potentially high-risk regions. Suppliers of products with the remaining 1% of ingredients could not provide visibility to the country of origin
AchievedDid not 
achieve On trackArea of focus Achieved ahead 
of schedule
Significant 
progressStatus key
PeopleOur ApproachIntroduction Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 63Governance Appendix

Goals & Metrics 2022 2023 2024 Baseline Target Year Status
Responsible Sourcing: Animal Welfare 
Laying Hen Housing
Revenue: Increase sales of shell eggs from laying hens in cage-free or better housing systems as a percentage of total egg revenue1 32.3% 54.1%2 55.9% – –
Volume: Increase shell eggs sourced from laying hens in cage-free housing systems or better (units: dozens) to 70%1 33.6% 36.1%3 43.3% – 2030
Sow Housing
Volume: By 2025, Kroger aims to source 100% of fresh pork from sows in group housing systems, based on availability –4 62.2% 90% – 2025
Broiler Chicken Welfare5
Achieve the following welfare enhancements in at least 50% of our supply for Simple Truth Organic® and Simple Truth Natural® fresh chicken:
Maximum stocking density of 6.0 pounds/sq. foot 17.9% 37.8% 36.6% – 2024
Prohibit broiler cages 100% 100% 100% – 2024
Enriched environments, including litter and lighting 41.9% 39.5% 71.4% – 2024
Processing in a manner that avoids pre-stun handling and uses controlled atmosphere systems (CAS) 10.9% 14.5% 16.9% – 2024
1. Restated progress to align shell egg units to dozens for all years
2. 2023 revenue figure is restated from 51.9% to 54.1% to reflect revised data
3. 2023 volume figure is restated from 33.6% to 36.1% to reflect revised data
4. Given the lack of industry alignment on standards and definitions for sow housing, we are unable to determine accurate year-over-year performance for 2022 and prior years
5. Goal progress is impacted by industry challenges, such as the time and cost required to transition growing operations to larger barns and CAS systems
Governance
AchievedDid not 
achieve On trackArea of focus Achieved ahead 
of schedule
Significant 
progressStatus key
PeopleOur ApproachIntroduction Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 64Governance Appendix

People Topic Definition Tier Location
Customer Experience Providing exceptional service and value and improving the customer experience through advances in areas such as online ordering, home delivery and digital solutions that offer greater flexibility for how 
customers shop. Engaging with customers and measuring customer satisfaction. 
2 Page 24
Diversity & Inclusion Building a diverse and inclusive workforce, fostering an environment of nondiscrimination and providing equal opportunities for associates. 2 Page 22
Employee Health, 
Safety & Well-Being
Providing safety training and equipment, safe working conditions and access to resources to maintain and improve associates’ health and well-being. 2 Page 23
Food & Product Access & 
Affordability
Increasing equitable access to affordable fresh foods to improve food security as well as affordable non-food products and other essentials. Promoting inclusive products to support a wide range of 
customers’ preferences and needs. Optimizing digital capabilities to advance food and product access.
1 Pages 11, 25
Food Safety Promoting food safety in our manufacturing plants, distribution centers and retail stores by establishing and maintaining science-based food preparation and handling policies and processes. Developing and 
maintaining programs to address emerging food safety topics. Managing product recalls efficiently. 
1 Page 50
Health & Nutrition Encouraging customers to purchase healthier and more nutritious food. Increasing awareness of the nutritional value of food and health improvement opportunities among customers and advancing nutrition 
security and wellness in our communities. Providing accessible pharmacy and retail health clinic services.
1 Page 26
Labor Relations Promoting fair labor practices, respecting associates’ freedom of association and right to collective bargaining, and participating in proactive conversations with associates, including those covered by 
collective bargaining agreements.
2 Page 21
Local Communities Using community engagement principles to share updates on the company’s business and operations, discuss community priorities, participate in local events, provide charitable support and more. Creating 
direct and indirect economic value in local communities where associates and customers work and live through local hiring, volunteerism and giving.
2 Page 28
Non-Food Product Safety Providing customers with high-quality non-food products (health and beauty products, apparel, home goods and more) that meet or exceed safety and regulatory requirements. Setting robust standards for 
suppliers that produce non-food products. 
3 Page 50
Retail Security Promoting the physical safety of retail supermarkets by increasing associates’ awareness and preparedness for managing security events or issues, including theft, organized retail crime, active assailant 
situations or open carry laws. Optimizing digital capabilities and advanced technologies to improve retail security.
3 Page 54
Talent Attraction, 
Engagement & Retention
Creating and maintaining a workplace of choice by offering competitive wages, quality benefits and a company culture that offers purpose-driven work and opportunities for advancement. Increasing 
associate engagement and training and improving job performance and retention. Using technology to improve talent attraction, engagement and retention.
1 Pages 19, 20
Responsible Business Topic Definitions
To address the complex issues most relevant to our business, we continue to learn from internal and external stakeholders through the 
materiality assessment process and ongoing engagement. The topics listed below were identified and prioritized in our latest materiality 
assessment, completed in early 2023. We outline the process and results of this double materiality assessment on pp. 8–9 of this report.
Material Topics Summary
1
1.  Topics and definitions reflect input from Kroger’s stakeholders through regular engagement and this materiality assessment 
process. Definitions provide the boundaries for each topic and do not reflect a specific company policy or commitment
PeopleOur ApproachIntroduction Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 65Governance Appendix

Planet Topic Definition Tier Location
Agricultural Practices Promoting responsible pesticide, fertilizer and soil management practices, including efforts to reduce negative impacts on pollinators. Supporting regenerative and resilient agriculture methods, such as crop 
cycling, agroforestry, livestock integrations, no- or low-till techniques and cover crops.
2 Page 43
Biodiversity & Conservation Conserving natural resources and biodiversity by supporting responsible land management and forestry practices in our operations and supply chain, including efforts to reduce deforestation and land-use 
change. Offering wild-caught and farm-raised seafood from certified sources, supporting fishery improvement projects and removing at-risk species from products and stores.
3 Page 43
Climate Change Resilience Anticipating, preventing and mitigating long-term effects of climate change on our business and supply chain, including extreme weather conditions, regulatory changes and technology changes. 2 Page 37
Energy & GHG Emissions Collecting and measuring Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions data from building and fleet management in the company’s retail, manufacturing, supply chain and other operations, as well as upstream and 
downstream in the value chain. Conducting activities that seek to meet emissions-reductions targets, including improvements in energy efficiency, reduction of refrigerant emissions and increased use of 
renewable energy.
1 Pages 34, 70
Food Waste Reducing the amount of food waste generated in the company’s operations, recovering safe unsold surplus food for donation to feed people, and diverting from landfill any inedible food scraps through food 
waste recycling programs. 
1 Pages 11, 39
Waste & Circularity Diverting non-food waste from landfill through increased waste reduction, reuse and recycling in the company’s operations. Adopting circular economy principles to promote product and packaging 
sustainability, including reducing unnecessary materials; increasing recyclability, reusability and compostability; and supporting infrastructure growth that enables circularity. Providing recycling information 
to customers. 
2 Pages 11, 38, 41
Water Reducing water use, increasing water reuse and managing water discharge quality across the company’s operations to protect local water sources. 3 Page 46
Governance Topic Definition Tier Location
Animal Welfare Advancing the humane treatment of animals in our supply chain by requiring suppliers to adhere to stated policies and expectations and encouraging improvements in protein production practices. Offering 
a range of alternative proteins and product choices. 
3 Page 59
Business Ethics 
& Compliance
Operating in an ethical manner and in compliance with applicable regulations, including anti-corruption, anti-bribery and anti-competitive practices. Maintaining and enforcing policies and operating 
procedures to protect associates, customers, communities and the environment.
2 Page 49
Corporate Governance Implementing and maintaining strong governance practices that include checks and balances and enable the company’s leadership team and Board of Directors to have appropriate control and oversight of 
key topics. Establishing and disclosing processes to integrate responsible business priorities into overall corporate governance practices. 
2 Page 48
Data Privacy 
& Cybersecurity
Promoting data privacy and security for associates, customers and suppliers, and implementing controls to prevent, detect and respond to security incidents or data breaches. Ensuring the ethical use of 
data and responsible use of technology across all aspects of the business and value chain.
1 Page 52
Human Rights Respecting human rights in the company’s operations and supply chain, including risks of forced labor, migrant labor, child labor, health and safety, discrimination, harassment, abuse, working hours and 
wages. Considering Indigenous people and land rights that may be affected by food and non-food production in the supply chain. 
3 Page 57
Marketing Practices 
& Product Labeling
Providing clear, fact-based and transparent nutrition labeling, including information on GMOs, geographic origin and more for items sold. Working with suppliers to ensure product attributes are truthfully 
and responsibly communicated to customers in stores, online and through advertising.
3 Page 53
Public Policy Practices Actively participating in forming and shaping federal, state and local public policy on issues that affect the company’s business operations.  3 Page 53
Responsible Supply Chain  
& Sourcing
Promoting responsible sourcing and procurement practices that consider sourcing-related risks and opportunities for people and our planet. Holding suppliers accountable for established policies, 
expectations and goals. Working to improve the traceability of products throughout the supply chain, especially for high-impact commodities. Optimizing capabilities to improve supply chain processes.
1 Page 55
PeopleOur ApproachIntroduction Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 66Governance Appendix

Section Description Link to Content
Governance
Describe the Board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities 2025 Responsible Business Report (Climate Impact, Corporate Governance)
CDP C.04 Governance
Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities 2025 Responsible Business Report (Climate Impact, Corporate Governance)
CDP C.04 Governance
Strategy
Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organization has identified over the short,  
medium and long term
2025 Responsible Business Report (Climate Impact)
Kroger Annual Report (Climate Resiliencies, Risk Factors)
CDP C.03 Disclosure of Risks and Opportunities
Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses,  
strategy and financial planning
2025 Responsible Business Report (Climate Impact)
Kroger Annual Report (Climate Resiliencies, Risk Factors)
CDP C.03 Disclosure of Risks and Opportunities, C.05 Business Strategy
Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking into consideration different  
climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario
2025 Responsible Business Report (Climate Impact)
Kroger Annual Report (Climate Resiliencies, Risk Factors)
CDP C.03 Disclosure of Risks and Opportunities, C.05 Business Strategy
Risk Management
Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks 2025 Responsible Business Report (Climate Change Resilience)
CDP C.03 Disclosure of Risks and Opportunities
Describe the organization’s processes for managing climate-related risks 2025 Responsible Business Report (Climate Change Resilience)
CDP C.03 Disclosure of Risks and Opportunities
Describe how processes for identifying, assessing and managing climate-related risks are integrated  
into the organization’s overall risk management
2025 Responsible Business Report (Climate Impact, Material Topics)
Kroger Annual Report (Climate Resiliencies, Risk Factors)
CDP C.03 Disclosure of Risks and Opportunities, C.05 Business Strategy
Metrics & Targets
Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climate-related risks and opportunities  
in line with its strategy and risk management process
2025 Responsible Business Report (Emissions-Reduction Goals, Emissions Disclosure, Appendix)
CDP C.03 Disclosure of Risks and Opportunities, C.07 Climate Change
Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2 and, if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions and the related risks 2025 Responsible Business Report (Emissions-Reduction Goals, Appendix)
CDP C.07 Climate Change
Describe the targets used by the organization to manage climate-related risks and opportunities  
and performance against targets
GHG Reduction Goal
GHG Reduction Goal Roadmap
2025 Responsible Business Report (Emissions-Reduction Goals, Managing Food Waste, Waste & Circularity, 
No-Deforestation Goal, Packaging Sustainability)
CDP C.07 Climate Change
No-Deforestation Commitment: Our Brands
Sustainable Packaging Goals
Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Index 
Below we provide references to where our reporting responds to the TCFD recommended disclosures.  
We include references to the relevant content in this Responsible Business Report, our Annual Report, 
our response to the CDP Climate questionnaire 1 and other resources.
1.  We do not include direct links to our CDP Climate response because these are no longer publicly available. Users can visit www.cdp.net to access disclosed data
PeopleOur ApproachIntroduction Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 67Governance Appendix

Topic Accounting Metric Unit of Measure Company Response
Fleet Fuel Management Fleet fuel consumed, percentage renewable Gigajoules (GJ), 
Percentage (%) 5,036,449 GJ; 0%
Air Emissions from Refrigeration
Gross global Scope 1 emissions from refrigerants Metric tons (MT) CO2e 1,329,023 MTCO2e
Percentage of refrigerants consumed with zero ozone-depleting potential (ODP) Percentage (%) by weight 92% of refrigerants consumed in Kroger’s retail stores are zero-ODP
Average refrigerant emissions rate Percentage (%) The average leak rate for all commercial refrigeration and HVAC systems in Kroger’s 
supermarkets was 11.1% in 2024
Energy Management (1) Operational energy consumed, (2) percentage grid electricity,  
(3) percentage renewable
Gigajoules (GJ), 
Percentage (%) (1) 41,291,473 GJ; (2) 61%; (3) 1%
Food Waste Management Amount of food waste generated, percentage diverted from the waste stream Metric tons (MT),  
Percentage (%) 319,720 MT, 58% (for retail stores)
Data Security
(1) Number of data breaches, (2) percentage involving personally identifiable 
information (PII), (3) number of customers affected Number, Percentage (%) (1) Zero; (2) 0%; (3) Zero
Description of approach to identifying and addressing data security risks n/a See Privacy & Cybersecurity section
Food Safety
High-risk food safety violation rate Rate Average of 1.02 critical violations per audit in 2024
(1) Number of recalls, (2) number of units recalled, (3) percentage of units recalled 
that are private-label products Number, Percentage (%) There were zero recalls for Kroger-manufactured Our Brands products;  
see Recall Management section for additional discussion
Product Health & Nutrition
Revenue from products labeled and/or marketed to promote health and 
nutrition attributes Reporting currency We are unable to disclose this information at this time
Discussion of the process to identify and manage products and ingredients related to 
nutritional and health concerns among consumers n/a See Health & Nutrition section
Product Labeling & Marketing
Number of incidents of non-compliance with industry or regulatory labeling and/or 
marketing codes Number Zero 
Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with 
marketing and/or labeling practices Reporting currency We do not report this publicly
Revenue from products labeled as (1) containing GMOs and (2) non-GMO Reporting currency We are unable to disclose this information at this time
Sustainability Accounting 
Standards Board (SASB) Index 
Below we provide additional specific disclosures and references to where our reporting aligns  
with the SASB Sustainability Accounting Standard for Food Retailers & Distributors. 
PeopleOur ApproachIntroduction Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 68Governance Appendix

Topic Accounting Metric Unit of Measure Company Response
Labor Practices
(1) Average hourly wage and (2) percentage of in-store and distribution center 
employees earning minimum wage, by region
Reporting currency, 
Percentage (%) (1) Average hourly wage is more than $19/hour; (2) We do not report this publicly
Percentage of active workforce covered under collective bargaining agreement Percentage (%) 64% of associates are covered by collective bargaining agreements
(1) Number of work stoppages and (2) total days idle Number, Days idle (1) One work stoppage; (2) Six days idle 
Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with: 
(1) labor law violations and (2) employment discrimination Reporting currency We do not report this publicly
Management of Environmental &  
Social Impacts in the Supply Chain
Revenue from products third-party certified to environmental or social 
sustainability sourcing standard Reporting currency We are unable to disclose this information at this time
Percentage of revenue from (1) eggs that originated from a cage-free environment 
and (2) pork produced without the use of gestation crate Percentage (%) by revenue (1) 55.9%; (2) Revenue sales are not currently able to be tracked (though we do track volume of 
pork sourced)
Discussion of strategy to manage environmental and social risks within the supply 
chain, including animal welfare n/a See Thriving Together Strategy and Responsible Supply Chain & Sourcing
Discussion of strategies to reduce the environmental impact of packaging n/a See Packaging Sustainability
PeopleOur ApproachIntroduction Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 69Governance Appendix

2024 Supplemental Data Tables 
Energy & Emissions
Energy Consumption1 Amount Unit Amount Unit Change vs.  2023
Total fuel consumed  4,515,784 MWh 1.63E+07 GJ -11%
Stationary sources (natural gas,  
propane, fuel, oil)  3,116,771 MWh 1.12E+07 GJ -11%
Mobile sources (diesel, gasoline,  
liquefied petroleum gas, jet fuel) 1,399,014 MWh 5.04E+06 GJ -12%
Renewable fuel – MWh – GJ –
Total electricity consumed 6,954,069 MWh 2.50E+07 GJ +3%
Renewable electricity2 48,598 MWh 1.75E+05 GJ -50%
Total energy consumed 11,469,853 MWh 4.13E+07 GJ -3%
1. This data reflects the vast majority of Kroger’s operations, with a few exceptions
2. This data reflects renewable electricity consumed as a result of renewable power generated at our facilities or purchased directly from our utility providers. In 2024, the 
amount of renewable energy purchased from utility providers declined due to unfavorable costs 
Health & Safety
Metric Associates Contractors
Injury rate (OSHA injuries/100 full-time employees (FTE))5 2.84 2.08
Lost day rate (OSHA lost time rate/100 FTE)6 2.29 1.45
5. Injury rate includes injuries greater than minor injuries (first aid) per OSHA reporting requirements
6. We classify lost days as calendar days. Lost days begin the day after the injury
Energy3/Carbon4 Intensity Amount Unit Change vs.  2023
Normalizing factor: facility footprint 238,676 1,000 ft2 –
Energy intensity per square foot 48.1 MWh/ 
1,000 ft2 -12.9%
Total corporate carbon emissions intensity 
per square foot 20.6 tCO2e/ 
1,000 ft2 -13.5%
3. The energy intensity calculation reflects total energy consumed within the organization
4. This calculation reflects market-based Scope 2 emissions
Carbon Emissions7,8 2024 Emissions (MTCO2e) Change vs.  2023
Direct (Scope 1) emissions 2,240,536 -2.1%
Stationary  563,167 +2.0%
Mobile  348,347 -6.2%
Fugitive   1,329,023 -2.6%
Indirect (Scope 2) emissions (location-based) 2,709,318 -1.1%
Indirect (Scope 2) emissions (market-based) 2,675,836 -4.2%
Total corporate (Scope 1 and 2) emissions (location-based) 4,949,855 -1.6%
Total corporate (Scope 1 and 2) emissions (market-based) 4,916,373 -3.3%
Indirect (Scope 3) emissions9 110,249,834 –
Purchased Goods & Services 60,715,351 –
Capital Goods 583,108 –
Fuel & Energy Emissions 761,194 –
Upstream Transportation & Distribution 2,053,859 –
Waste from Operations 345,837 –
Business Travel 27,952 –
Employee Commuting 597,923 –
Processing of Sold Products 5,286 –
Use of Sold Products 40,775,781 –
End-of-Life Treatment of Sold Products 4,348,119 –
Investments 35,424 –
7. We used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting Standard, the Operational Control approach and Global Warming Potentials from the IPCC  
Fifth Assessment Report (AR5 – 100 year). The base year for our footprint is 2006, when we first started measuring it
8. Scope 1 and 2 emissions reflect CO2, CH4, N2O and HFC gases. Details are disclosed in our CDP Climate response. Offsets were not used in our calculations
9. Scope 3 emissions reflect all categories relevant to Kroger. Due to changes in calculation methodologies in 2024, we are not providing a change-over-previous-year 
calculation for 2024 vs. 2021 (baseline year) 
PeopleOur ApproachIntroduction Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 70Governance Appendix

This Responsible Business Report does not cover all information 
about our business, and inclusion of information herein is not an 
indication that the subject or information is material to Kroger’s 
business or operating results for purposes of U.S. securities 
laws and regulations. Statements other than statements of 
historical or current facts, including statements and images 
about our Responsible Business targets, goals, aspirations, 
commitments and programs, and other business plans, initiatives 
and objectives are forward-looking statements and are based on 
Kroger’s management’s current assumptions and expectations. 
These statements are typically accompanied by the words “aim,” 
“ambition,” “anticipate,” “approach,” “believe,” “commitment/
committed,” “continue,” “estimate,” “expect,” “expectation,” 
“framework,” “focus,” “future,” “goals,” “may,” “on track,” 
“plan,” “program,” “strategy,” “strive,” “targets,” “will” or other 
similar words. All such statements are intended to enjoy the 
protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements 
within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934, as amended. Our actual future results, including the 
achievement of our targets, goals or commitments, could differ 
materially from our projected results as the result of a variety of 
factors, including, but not limited to, changes in circumstances, 
assumptions not being realized, or other risks, uncertainties, and 
factors, many of which are outside of our control. 
Such risks, uncertainties and factors include the risk factors 
discussed in Item 1A of our most recent Report on Form 10-K 
and in subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC); they also include the challenges, 
assumptions and dependencies identified in this report. 
We urge you to consider all of the risks, uncertainties and 
factors identified above or discussed in this report carefully in 
evaluating the forward-looking statements herein. Kroger cannot 
assure you that the results reflected or implied by any forward-
looking statement will be realized or, even if substantially 
realized, that those results will have the forecasted or expected 
consequences and effects. Unless expressly stated otherwise, 
the forward-looking statements in this report are made as of the 
effective date identified herein, and we undertake no obligation 
to update or revise these forward-looking statements to reflect 
subsequent events or circumstances. Standards of measurement 
and performance made in reference to the goals, aspirations and 
objectives referred to in this report are developing and based on 
protocols, processes and assumptions that continue to evolve 
and are subject to change in the future, and no assurances can 
be given that any plan, initiative, projection, goal, commitment, 
expectation or prospect set forth in this report can or will be 
achieved.
Forward-Looking Statements 
PeopleOur ApproachIntroduction Planet
2025 Kroger Responsible Business Report 71Governance Appendix