Class Action Lawsuit Alleges JetBlue Secretly Tracks Traveler Data for Dynamic Ticket Pricing
Lawsuit List
Most Popular
Social Media Addiction Lawsuits
Nitrous Oxide Lawsuits
Asbestos Lung Cancer Lawsuits
Video Game Addiction Lawsuits
Online Sports Betting Lawsuits
Dupixent Lawsuits
Kratom 7-OH Lawsuits
Silicosis Lawsuits
View All Lawsuits
→
Settlements
Data Breaches
Legal News
Newswire
Blog
Learn
About Us
Search
Search
in
Newswire
Published on April 29, 2026
Class Action Lawsuit Alleges JetBlue Secretly Tracks Traveler Data for Dynamic Ticket Pricing
by
Olivia DeRicco
Share
View Comments
Phillips v. JetBlue Airways Corporation
Filed: April 22, 2026
◆
§ 1:26-cv-02405
•
Read Complaint
A class action lawsuit alleges JetBlue secretly tracks and collects consumer data for ‘dynamic surveillance pricing’ purposes.
Defendant(s)
JetBlue Airways Corporation
Law(s)
Electronic Communications Privacy Act of 1986
State(s)
New York
Categories
Travel
Privacy
False Advertising
Fraud
Class Action Lawsuit
New to ClassAction.org? Read our Newswire Disclaimer
JetBlue faces a proposed class action lawsuit that alleges the airline does not disclose its use of online tracking technology to gather travelers’ data for the purpose of using the information to set ticket prices, a practice called “dynamic surveillance pricing.”
Get class action lawsuit and class action settlement news sent to your inbox – sign up for
ClassAction.org’s free weekly newsletter
.
The 45-page lawsuit claims that
JetBlue Airways
, rather than protect consumers’ data, employs tracking tools on its website to collect, retain and use travelers’ information without consent. According to the case, JetBlue fails to disclose not only that the online trackers are used to set ticket pricing (for instance, when a consumer looks for tickets, closes the window, and later comes back), but that the
trackers
are used for behavioral analytics that also allow the
airline
to set prices dynamically, as opposed to setting static ticket prices.
JetBlue also fails to disclose that it shares consumer data with third parties for the purpose of setting prices, the suit alleges.
The
class action lawsuit
argues that
JetBlue
effectively admitted in a since-deleted social media post in April 2026 that it uses so-called dynamic surveillance pricing. After a consumer complained about a $230 increase in
ticket prices
, the case says, the company recommended on X, formerly known as Twitter, that they “[t]ry clearing your cache and cookies or booking with an incognito window,” suggesting that consumer activity on JetBlue’s website is “closely” monitored.
“Sharing information with third parties and allowing them to secretly collect this information makes this possible,” the filing states.
The lawsuit says that travelers looking to buy tickets online have a reasonable expectation of privacy because of the sensitive nature of the information they must share. The suit stresses that consumers must provide a “significant” amount of personal data to buy plane tickets and should “have the very same privacy rights as those who physically walk up to an airline ticketing counter.”
Although JetBlue has since denied that its website uses dynamic surveillance pricing, the case says that other public statements, the de facto social media admission, and even the website’s back-end code “say otherwise.”
“Consumers should not have to have their privacy rights violated to participate in Defendant’s digital rat race for airline tickets which should cost the same for each similarly seated passenger,” the complaint scathes.
The lawsuit says that JetBlue seems to understand the “critical” nature of protecting traveler information but “immediately contradicts itself” by noting in its privacy policy that aspects of the airline’s website will not function properly unless a consumer accepts all cookies and
tracking technologies
.
Traveler information input into the JetBlue website is transmitted to two
third-party companies
, PROS Holdings, Inc. and FullStory, Inc., which
collect and analyze
consumers’ behavioral information, with PROS using an algorithm to set prices based on consumer behavior, the case claims. This creates a problem, given that consumer information is “commonly weaponized” by companies as a surreptitious way to
ascertain
someone’s socioeconomic status and geographic location, the suit says. With this much information, a company can adjust prices based on a consumer’s zip code or presumed socioeconomic class, the lawsuit relays.
The case contends that dynamic surveillance pricing is “highly concerning” in that JetBlue uses the trackers to “make as much money as they can” from airline tickets that are priced differently for different consumers while “blatantly” invading their privacy rights. While surveillance pricing is not illegal, “secretly” collecting consumer data without consent is, the case argues.
The plaintiff and proposed
class members
“[d]id not anticipate, invite, or adequately consent to the presence of other third-party corporations looking over their digital shoulders as they transact business with [JetBlue],” the lawsuit claims.
The JetBlue dynamic pricing
class action lawsuit
looks to cover all natural individuals in the United States who used JetBlue’s website and/or mobile application and whose communications and/or data were shared with third parties during the
applicable statutory period
.
Check out ClassAction.org’s lawsuit list for the latest open
class action lawsuits
and investigations.
Case Spotlight
Video Game Addiction Lawsuits
If your child suffers from
video game addiction
— including Fortnite addiction or Roblox addiction — you may be able to take legal action. Gamers 18 to 22 may also qualify.
Learn more:
Video Game Addiction Lawsuit
Kratom 7-OH Lawsuits
Anyone who has used
7-OH kratom products
and suffered a serious injury, such as overdose, heart attack or addiction, may be able to take legal action.
Read more:
Kratom 7-OH Lawsuits
How Do I Join a Class Action Lawsuit?
Did you know
there's usually nothing you need to do to join, sign up for, or add your name to new
class action lawsuits
when they're initially filed?
Read more here:
How Do I Join a Class Action Lawsuit?
Stay Current
Sign Up
For
Our Newsletter
New cases and investigations, settlement deadlines, and news straight to your inbox.
Subscribe
Open Document
Share
Last Updated on April 30, 2026 — 9:14 AM
Olivia DeRicco
olivia.dericco@classaction.org
Olivia works primarily on ClassAction.org’s newswire, reporting on cases as they happen.
About ClassAction.org
ClassAction.org is a group of online professionals (designers, developers and writers) with years of experience in the legal industry.
Learn More
Before commenting, please review our
comment policy
.
Load Comments
Search
©2009 - 2026 ClassAction.org
View All Cases
Settlements
Report a Potential Claim
About Us
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Disclaimer
Privacy Notice
Comment Policy
Stay Current
Sign Up
For
Our Newsletter
Subscribe