1 
 
 
July 3, 2024 
David Risher 
Chief Executive Officer  
Lyft, Inc. 
185 Berry Street Suite 400 
San Francisco, CA 94107 
 
Dear Mr. Risher:  
Second only to housing, transportation costs are Americans’ biggest necessary expense.1 
Transportation-related companies’ increasing use of dynamic pricing, or “surge pricing,” 
threatens to drive prices even higher. Using algorithms to set prices, including dynamic pricing, 
abuses consumer data and suppresses competition, making prices unpredictable and taking away 
people’s ability to find the lowest price. Such pricing maximizes profits at the expense of 
consumers, without improving or changing the service offered. While Lyft was an early adopter 
of dynamic pricing and has long used this technique to set fares based on consumer demand,2 
this practice is now spreading to more industries.3 
According to your company’s website, Lyft’s dynamic pricing algorithm handles market 
volatility by continuously changing prices to determine what to charge for a ride.4 Under these 
shifting conditions, fare rates are highly volatile, making it difficult for consumers to predict how 
much they will pay for a given ride. While proponents of dynamic pricing often claim that it 
lowers costs by creating more efficient markets, your company’s rising prices cast doubt upon 
that assertion. Between 2018 and 2022, Lyft’s prices increased by 50 percent.5  
Frequent and opaque price changes and diminishing competition are making ride-hailing services 
less affordable. I am concerned that pricing algorithms enable corporations to charge higher 
prices in circumstances where consumers have the greatest need and fewest choices. To better 
understand how corporations like Lyft use technology to increase prices, the public needs clarity 
on how Lyft deploys pricing algorithms and uses consumer data, and on how these algorithms 
 
1 https://data.bts.gov/stories/s/Transportation-Economic-Trends-Transportation-Spen/ida7-k95k/  
2 https://time.com/3633469/uber-surge-pricing/  
3 https://www.npr.org/2024/03/06/1197958433/dynamic-pricing-grocery-supermarkets  
4 https://eng.lyft.com/pricing-at-lyft-8a4022065f8b  
5 https://www.labor.ucla.edu/wp-content/uploads/2023/02/Taxi-Commission-policy-brief-2.9.23.pdf

2 
 
are affecting American consumers’ wallets. Please provide answers to the following questions by 
August 1, 2024.   
1. How does Lyft determine the price of a given ride? How much can the cost of a ride from 
point A to point B vary? Please also describe Lyft’s algorithms for setting prices, and 
how these algorithms are tested. 
 
2. How does Lyft determine when the price for a ride should change? What factors does 
Lyft use to change prices? 
 
3. How does Lyft help consumers plan for purchasing costs? Does Lyft communicate 
changes in prices to consumers, and, if so, how? 
 
4. Please describe the data Lyft uses to determine prices. Please specifically describe where 
the customer data comes from – including whether an individual’s past purchasing 
behavior, browsing history, device, or device battery level is used to determine prices. 
 
5. Does Lyft apply any strategies to determine the highest price any given consumer will 
pay? If two different users ask for a ride from point A to point B and the driving 
conditions are the same, will they be quoted the same price? Does Lyft consistently 
charge higher prices to more willing consumers? For example, does Lyft consider a 
customer’s previous willingness to pay surge prices when offering them a surged price in 
the future?  
 
6. What specific steps has Lyft taken to ensure that pricing algorithms do not discriminate 
based on protected classes, such as gender, age, disability status, or race? 
 
7. When Lyft turns on surge pricing in an area, does this result in more drivers going 
online?  
 
Thank you for your consideration and your timely response. 
Sincerely, 
 
Sherrod Brown 
United States Senator