New data confirms airlines charging more for solo passengers — but it's not as bad as you've heard - The Points Guy
Skip to content
Menu
Go to Home Page
Subscribe
Advertiser disclosure
Search The Points Guy
Advertiser disclosure
ADVERTISEMENT
News
New data confirms airlines charging more for solo passengers — but it's not as bad as you've heard
Clint Henderson
Clint Henderson
Principal Spokesperson
Clint Henderson is a managing editor at TPG who has worked in the journalism industry for more than 25 years. He is obsessed with travel and has used points and miles to explore the world.
June 27, 2025
•
6 min read
New data confirms airlines charging more for solo passengers — but it's not as bad as you've heard
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Copy URL
Email
The cards we feature here are from partners who compensate us when you are approved through our site, and this may impact how or where these products appear. We don’t cover all available credit cards, but our analysis, reviews, and opinions are entirely from our editorial team. Terms apply to the offers listed on this page. Please view our
advertising policy
and
product review methodology
for more information.
Airlines make all kinds of interesting pricing decisions in order to maximize profits in an industry where it's very hard to make money from flying.
Charging more for last-minute bookings and dynamically pricing seats based on demand are among the many ways airlines price flights ... and squeeze more money from consumers.
Historically, airlines also frequently charged more for fares that didn't include a weekend or at least a Saturday stopover. That trend has eased over the years, but the goal for airlines remains the same when it comes to prices: Try to wring more money from business travelers who often have deeper pockets (or, at least, expense accounts).
Airlines are getting more sophisticated at extracting money from leisure travelers, too. Consumers have seemingly been more willing to spend more in recent years, especially on premium products like extra-legroom or first-class seats. After all,
Delta Air Lines said it is selling
more than three-quarters of its first-class seats.
Now, there is a relatively new trend at the forefront: Some airlines are charging more for solo passengers than those booking multiple seats. It's a trend
Thrifty Traveler
first discovered last month. We found similar instances in our
own reporting
earlier this month, during which we noticed one-way flights priced higher for solo travelers than for multipassenger bookings.
But is this the case across the board?
With help from the team at
Points Path
, a free web browser extension that shows points and miles award prices in Google Flights, along with cash fares, we decided to dig a bit deeper into Points Path data to better understand how airlines are currently pricing flights. Here's what the data showed.
Related:
How to use the Points Path extension to compare cash and award rates in Google Flights
TPG and Points Path
American Airlines Boeing 777 at Dallas Fort Worth International Airport (DFW). CLINT HENDERSON/THE POINTS GUY
Points Path and TPG analyzed more than 3,800 individual flights for a day selected at random (July 18) to study the pricing differences. We chose from among the most popular domestic routes in the U.S., including busy transcontinental routes like New York to Los Angeles and San Francisco. We also looked at shorter, popular flights like Los Angeles to Las Vegas. We considered flights from Southwest Airlines, American Airlines, Alaska Airlines, United Airlines and Delta Air Lines in our searches.
Daily Newsletter
Reward your inbox with the TPG Daily newsletter
Join over 700,000 readers for breaking news, in-depth guides and exclusive deals from TPG’s experts
Email address
Sign up
By signing up, you will receive newsletters and promotional content and agree to our
Terms of Use
and acknowledge the data practices in our
Privacy Policy
. You may unsubscribe at any time.
You can see a tiny snapshot of the searches we ran in the screenshot below.
Points Path and TPG searches in Google Sheets. POINTS PATH AND THE POINTS GUY
In the airlines' defense, we actually found very few flights that charged more for solo passengers.
Out of 3,817 route combinations, we only found 271 where there was a price discrepancy resulting in solo passengers paying more.
One example is a flight on American Airlines from Austin-Bergstrom International Airport (AUS) to Charlotte Douglas International Airport (CLT), where it cost $473 for one ticket versus just $338 (each) for a ticket booked with another person. That's a $135 difference.
Previous slide
Next slide
1
of
2
Pricing on a ticket from Austin to Charlotte. AMERICAN AIRLINES
0
1
However, in some of our searches (235, to be exact), we actually found that solo travelers would pay less than two travelers booking together.
Here's a good example: American Airlines is charging about $68 more for a couple (per ticket) than for a solo traveler on a flight from Philadelphia International Airport (PHL) to Orlando International Airport (MCO).
Previous slide
Next slide
1
of
2
Pricing on a ticket from Philadelphia to Orlando. AMERICAN AIRLINES
0
1
And the vast majority of our searches found that fares were identical for solo travelers and couples.
For instance, a solo traveler on a trip from Seattle-Tacoma International Airport (SEA) to Denver International Airport (DEN) would pay $216 ... and so would a couple for each seat booked.
Previous slide
Next slide
1
of
2
Pricing on a ticket from Seattle to Denver. UNITED AIRLINES
0
1
Delta told TPG's Senior Aviation Reporter Sean Cudahy earlier this month that such pricing tactics are not new to the airline or the industry, but the airline declined to comment further.
We reached out to American and United to see if they wanted to comment, and we will update this post if those carriers weigh in.
Bottom line
CLINT HENDERSON/THE POINTS GUY
While we did find some data to support the idea that airlines sometimes charge solo passengers more for some flights than couples, the data also shows that sometimes the opposite is true: Occasionally, couples have to pay more than solo passengers.
In the vast majority of cases, the price for a seat booked by a single traveler is the same as each seat booked by a pair. I feel fairly reassured that I'm not getting ripped off as a solo traveler, but the data does show it can be worth checking the price for both one and two travelers when you search. In many cases, it will make sense to book two separate reservations for parties of two to get a cheaper price.
If you find the price is much higher for a trip you're booking for just yourself, you can try calling the airline to ask if it will give you the lower price when booking two seats. You never know; the carrier may be open to selling you the seat at the lower price, so it can't hurt to ask.
Related reading:
The best time to book flights for the cheapest airfare
Best airline credit cards
What exactly are airline miles, anyway?
6 real-life strategies you can use when your flight is canceled or delayed
Maximize your airfare: The best credit cards for booking flights
The best credit cards to reach elite status
Featured image by
CLINT HENDERSON/THE POINTS GUY
Editorial disclaimer: Opinions expressed here are the author’s alone, not those of any bank, credit card issuer, airline or hotel chain, and have not been reviewed, approved or otherwise endorsed by any of these entities.
TPG featured card
Bilt Palladium Card
TPG Editor‘s Rating
4
/ 5
Go to review
Apply for
Bilt Palladium Card
Apply now
for
Bilt Palladium Card
at
Bilt
's secure site
Terms & restrictions apply.
See rates & fees.
Rewards rate
1X
Choose to earn up to 1X points on rent and mortgage payments with no transaction fee
2X
Earn 2X points + the option to earn 4% back in Bilt Cash on everyday purchases
Intro offer
Open
Intro bonus
Welcome bonus (subject to approval): 50,000 Bilt Points + Gold Status after spending $4,000 on everyday purchases in the first 90 days + $300 of Bilt Cash.
50,000 Bilt Points + Gold Status + $300 of Bilt Cash
Annual fee
$495
Regular APR
26.74 - 34.74% variable
Recommended credit
Open
Credit score description
Credit ranges are a variation of FICO® Score 8, one of many types of credit scores lenders may use when considering your credit card application.
Good Credit, Excellent Credit
VIEW MORE
Pros + cons
More details
Pros
Choice to earn up to 1 Bilt Point per dollar spent on rent and mortgage payments
Elevated everyday earnings with both Bilt Points and the option to earn Bilt Cash
$400 Bilt Travel Portal hotel credit per year (up to $200 biannually)
$200 Bilt Cash annually
Priority Pass membership
No foreign transaction fees
Cons
Moderate annual fee
Designed primarily for members seeking a premium, all-in-one card
Earn points on housing with no transaction fee
Choose to earn 4% back in Bilt Cash on everyday spend. Use Bilt Cash to unlock point earnings on rent and mortgage payments with no transaction fee, up to 1X.
2X points on everyday spend
$400 Bilt Travel Hotel credit. Applied twice a year, as $200 statement credits, for qualifying Bilt Travel Portal hotel bookings.
$200 Bilt Cash (awarded annually). At the end of each calendar year, any Bilt Cash balance over $100 will expire.
Welcome bonus (subject to approval): 50,000 Bilt Points + Gold Status after spending $4,000 on everyday purchases in the first 90 days + $300 of Bilt Cash.
Priority Pass ($469/year value). See
Guide to Benefits
.
Bilt Point redemptions include airlines, hotels, future rent and mortgage payments, Lyft rides, statement credits, student loan balances, a down payment on a home, and more.
gtm--featured-card-11038
Maximize your travel
Facebook
Instagram
YouTube
Twitter
TikTok
Sign up for our daily newsletter for the latest news, deals and tips.
Email address
Subscribe
By signing up, you will receive newsletters and promotional content and agree to our
Terms of Use
and acknowledge the data practices in our
Privacy Policy
. You may unsubscribe at any time.
Meet TPG
About us
TPG gives back
Careers
Contact us
Site map
Newsletters
Legal
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
Privacy policy
Terms of use
Cookie settings
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Our Commitment to Transparency
The Points Guy believes that credit cards can transform lives, helping you leverage everyday spending for cash back or travel experiences that might otherwise be out of reach. That’s why we publish a variety of editorial content and card comparisons: to help you find a great card to turn your goals into reality.
Our site may earn compensation when a customer clicks on a link, when an application is approved, or when an account is opened with our partners, and this may impact how or where these products appear. While we don’t cover all available credit cards, our editorial team creates and maintains all of the analysis of these cards, and our content is not influenced nor subject to review by any credit card company, bank or partner prior to (or after) publication. Please view our
advertising policy
and
product review methodology
for more information.
Copyright ©
2026
The Points Guy, LLC. All rights reserved. A Red Ventures company.