Attorney General James Demands Answers from Instacart about Algorithmic Pricing
Skip to main content
Office of the New York State Attorney General
Letitia James
New York State Attorney General
Search
Sort by
Relevance
Date
Order
Asc
Desc
How can we help you?
I Want To...
Appeal a background check
Apply for a Job/Internship
Do Business with the OAG
File a Complaint
Find Legal Services
Know My Rights
Make a FOIL Request
Register/Submit a Filing
Report a Data Breach
Request a Publication
Serve Papers on OAG
Use the student ePayment portal
Use the Whistleblower Portal
Search
Sort by
Relevance
Date
Order
Asc
Desc
Main navigation
About
About the Office
Employment Opportunities
Meet Letitia James
Year in Review
Resources
Individuals
Car & Auto
Charities & Nonprofits
Civil Rights
Consumer Issues
Credit, Debt, & Lending
Education & Students
Environmental Issues
Health Care & Insurance
Immigrants' Rights
Investing & Finance
Policing Issues
Tenants & Homeowners
Voting Rights
Workers' Rights
Government & Organizations
Business Guidance
Charities, Nonprofits & Fundraisers
Contract & Procurement Opportunities
Data Breach Reporting
Franchise Regulation
Investments, Registration & Regulation
Law Enforcement Guidance
New York Voting Rights Act
Outreach Presentations
Real Estate Regulation
Social Media Terms of Service Reporting
Libraries & Documents
Advocacy and Enforcement Actions
Charities Registry Search
Charities Transaction Search
Guidance
Offering Plan Database
Opinions
Publications
Real Estate Policy Memoranda Search
Regulatory Documents
Reports
News & Media
Press Releases
Livestream
Event Archive
Contact Us
How can we help you?
I Want To...
Appeal a background check
Apply for a Job/Internship
Do Business with the OAG
File a Complaint
Find Legal Services
Know My Rights
Make a FOIL Request
Register/Submit a Filing
Report a Data Breach
Request a Publication
Serve Papers on OAG
Use the student ePayment portal
Use the Whistleblower Portal
Home
Press Releases
Attorney General James Demands Answers From Instacart About Algorithmic Pricing
Attorney General James Demands Answers from Instacart about Algorithmic Pricing
Recent Study Revealed Instacart’s Price Experiments Led to Shoppers Being Charged Significantly Different Prices for the Same Products
Instacart Must Disclose Algorithmic Pricing Under New York Law
January 8, 2026
NEW YORK – New York Attorney General Letitia James today sent a
letter to online grocery shopping platform Instacart
demanding more information about its use of algorithmic pricing and price-setting experiments after a recent report revealed Instacart users were being charged significantly different prices for the same products. In December, Groundwork Collaborative and Consumer Reports released a detailed study showing Instacart was varying prices for the same product, with some shoppers seeing prices that were up to 23 percent higher for the exact same products in the same store at the same time. New York’s recent Algorithmic Pricing Disclosure Act requires companies to clearly and conspicuously state when they are using consumers’ personal data to affect prices. Attorney General James warns Instacart that it may be violating the law, and requests detailed information on the pricing experiments highlighted in the recent report and Instacart’s efforts to comply with the Algorithmic Pricing Disclosure Act.
“Charging different prices for the exact same products leaves shoppers feeling cheated and threatens to raise costs at a time when consumers are already paying too much at the grocery store,” said
Attorney General James
. “New Yorkers deserve fair prices and clear disclosures about how companies are using their personal information. Instacart’s pricing experiments raise serious concerns about its use of algorithmic pricing, and I will not hesitate to take action to enforce our laws and protect consumers.”
The study by Groundwork Collaborative and Consumer Reports assigned 437 shoppers across four cities to add items to their Instacart shopping carts and measure the prices displayed. Nearly three-quarters of the grocery items in the experiment were offered to shoppers at multiple prices on Instacart, with a 13 percent average difference between the highest and lowest prices for a single good. The experiment revealed that these price differences could translate to $1,200 per year in additional costs for a typical family of four. Following the study’s publication, Instacart announced that it was ending all “item price tests” but suggested that its partners, including grocery stores and food brands, could continue to test different types of promotions and discounts for its customers on the platform.
New York’s Algorithmic Pricing Disclosure Act took effect on November 10, 2025, and requires most companies that use algorithmic pricing, also known as surveillance pricing, to disclose that they use customers’ personal data to set individualized prices. Businesses must include a clear disclosure prominently displayed near prices stating, “THIS PRICE WAS SET BY AN ALGORITHM USING YOUR PERSONAL DATA.” In the letter, Attorney General James warns Instacart that its disclosures – which are buried on a page only accessible by clicking on fine print text and are not clearly displayed near product prices – may not be complying with the law.
Attorney General James is demanding detailed information from Instacart about its price-setting tactics, including:
Its agreements with its retail and food brand partners concerning price setting, discounts, and automated tools to run price experiments on shoppers.
The automated tools used by Instacart and its partners to adjust prices and discounts, including how consumer data may be used for these price changes.
Instacart’s price experiments, including the ones revealed by the Groundwork Collaborative and Consumer Reports study.
Instacart and its partners’ use of algorithmic pricing and their efforts to comply with New York’s disclosure requirements.
Attorney General James has consistently taken action to protect consumers from being taken advantage of at the grocery store. In November 2025, Attorney General James
released a consumer alert
warning New Yorkers about algorithmic pricing and encouraging businesses to follow the law to disclose their use of algorithmic pricing. Attorney General James has also taken action to stop price gouging of essential goods, including
eggs
,
baby formula
, and
disinfectants used to stop the spread of COVID-19
.
Letitia James
New York State Attorney General
Social Media
Contact
Office of the New York State Attorney General
The Capitol
Albany NY 12224-0341
Phone:
1-800-771-7755
Deaf or hard of hearing:
1-800-788-9898
Footer
Statewide Offices
Press Releases
File a Complaint
Employment Opportunities
Copyright ©
2026
— Office of the New York State Attorney General. All Rights Reserved.
Policy Menu
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
Accessibility Policy
We value your privacy
We use cookies to enhance your browsing experience, improve our content delivery, and analyze our traffic. We do not use cookies for advertising or marketing purposes. By using this website, you consent to our use of cookies. You can learn more about how we collect and use information by reviewing our
privacy policy
.
Okay