UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT 
EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK 
 x  
ANDREW PHILLIPS, on behalf of 
himself and all others similarly 
situated,  
                  Plaintiff,  
v.  
JETBLUE AIRWAYS 
CORPORATION, 
                   Defendant.  
 
 
 : 
 : 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
x 
     Case No. ____________________ 
     CLASS ACTION COMPLAINT 
     DEMAND FOR JURY TRIAL 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Case 1:26-cv-02405     Document 1     Filed 04/22/26     Page 1 of 45 PageID #: 1

1 
       Plaintiff ANDREW PHILLIPS (“Plaintiff”) brings this class action 
complaint (the “ Action”) on behalf of himself and others similarly 
situated for violations of federal, state, and common law against 
Defendant, JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORPORATION  (“JetBlue” or the 
“Defendant”) upon personal knowledge as to himself and his own 
actions, information and belief, and the investigation of his counsel, 
seeking actual damages, statutory damages, restitution, disgorgement 
of profits into a constructive trust, pre - and post -judgment interest, 
reasonable costs and attorneys’ fees, a declaratory judgment, injunctive 
relief, and any other relief this Court deems just and proper, as follows:  
INTRODUCTION 
 
1. This is one of the very first class actions in American history 
regarding dynamic surveillance pricing and the surreptitious use of 
consumer data in order to set pricing based on consumer behavior.  
2. Plaintiff and Class members are  airline travelers who have 
used Defendant’s website, www.jetblue.com, within the statutory period 
to book airline travel and acquire airline tickets on JetBlue’s airlines as 
well as the airlines which codeshare with JetBlue.  
3. Defendant offers services related to airline travel.   
Case 1:26-cv-02405     Document 1     Filed 04/22/26     Page 2 of 45 PageID #: 2

2 
4. The data associated with air travel  is highly sensitive 
because it involves the collection of personally identifiable information 
as well as the specific transaction data related to Plaintiff’s air travel.   
5. For example, if a user of Defendant’s website is seeking 
airline tickets for travel purposes  the website must combine identifiers 
(e.g. the travelers’ name, connected accounts including their email 
address, and their internet protocol address) together with other 
information including the data needed to book airfare (government 
identification, full name, address and other information) as well as 
information about the airfare itself (travel information) and payment 
information.1  
6. The digital booking of Defendant’s airfare services come with 
a reasonable expectation of privacy because of the sensitive nature of the 
PII provided, and thus Defendant’s website users have the very same 
privacy rights as those who physically walk up to an airline ticketing 
counter.  With that in mind, ordinarily, a traveler would have to consent 
to the presence of other third -parties looking over their shoulders or 
 
1 Taken together with personally identifiable information such as a customer 
identifier, internet protocol address, or other information which identifies a specific 
person, the “PII.” 
Case 1:26-cv-02405     Document 1     Filed 04/22/26     Page 3 of 45 PageID #: 3

3 
being at an airline ticketing counter along with them as they transact 
business with and provide PII to an airline, as is the case here.  
7. However, rather than protect their PII , Defendant uses 
tracking technology itself and otherwise allows third parties, to collect, 
retain, and use traveler data without adequate and sufficient consent 
from Plaintiff and Class members  using tracking technology embedded 
in website code.  The existence of the trackers used by Defendant and by 
third parties on the website is a breach of travelers’ privacy.   
8. This is especially so considering the methodology and 
purpose for deploying these technologies are not adequately disclosed: 
while Defendant has a Privacy Policy, it: (1) does not disclose that the 
trackers are used to set pricing ( e.g. when a consumer searches for 
airline tickets and then closes the browser window, the prices increase 
when the consumer seeks to re -engage with purchasing), (2) it does not 
disclose that the trackers are used for behavioral analytics which also 
allow the airline to set pricin g dynamically as opposed to set, static 
pricing, and (3) it generally does not disclose that it shares consumer 
data with third parties for the purpose of setting prices. 
Case 1:26-cv-02405     Document 1     Filed 04/22/26     Page 4 of 45 PageID #: 4

4 
9. However, JetBlue shares consumer data with numerous 
third parties. In fact, Defendant admitted on social media that they use 
this form of dynamic surveillance pricing, as can be seen below on April 
18, 2026:  
 
10. Sharing information with third parties and allowing them to 
secretly collect this information makes this possible.  
11. For example, FullStory, Inc., a behavioral analytics and data 
collection platform which provides Fullstory’s “behavior data platform to 
optimize its digital experience [b]y closely monitoring revenue -
impacting features and enhancing user flows”  services using data 
collection, behavioral analysis, and user targeting, uses trackers to 
Case 1:26-cv-02405     Document 1     Filed 04/22/26     Page 5 of 45 PageID #: 5

5 
collect data on numerous pages on Defendant’s website.2  According to 
JetBlue’s Digital Experience Product Manager, Greg Kaplan, “[w]ith 
FullStory, we can make product decisions faster.  If an issue crops up, I 
can see how big its impact is within two minutes and determine how we 
should prioritize it.  With other tools, there can be a significant lead time 
between when the data is logged and when it’s indexed and available – 
it's been so valuable to have the data at our fingertips immediately.”3  
12. Additionally, JetBlue shares consumer data with a company 
called PROS Holdings, Inc., which uses an algorithm to set pricing in 
real time based on “buyer behavior” as discussed more below.  
13. Naturally, Defendant deleted th eir social media  post and 
denied that dynamic surveillance pricing takes place – but the website 
code, other public statements, and this admission on social media all say 
otherwise.  And while setting higher prices based on consumer behavior 
is abhorrent – this Action is focused on the violations of consumer 
 
2 https://www.fullstory.com/customer-story/travel-
hospitality/jetblue/?utm_source=google&utm_medium=paid-search&utm_campaign=GS-2024-
Demo-
Brand&utm_offer=demo&utm_product=AN&utm_term=fullstory&gad_source=1&gad_campai
gnid=21245150379&gbraid=0AAAAADmJjBSlgmSQDc1P7B5VkyxmrcdkT&gclid=EAIaIQob
ChMIy7_Fnv2BlAMV-WlHAR0BTSzbEAAYASAAEgK9R_D_BwE, (last accessed Apr. 22, 
2026).  
 
3 Id.  
Case 1:26-cv-02405     Document 1     Filed 04/22/26     Page 6 of 45 PageID #: 6

6 
privacy who book flights on Defendant’s website.  Consumers should not 
have to have their privacy rights violated to participate in Defendant’s 
digital rat race for airline tickets which should cost the same for each 
similarly seated passenger.  
14. Dynamic surveillance pricing, and, specifically, JetBlue’s 
conduct from this past week, has drawn consternation from Congress 
and federal regulatory authorities.  
15. As such, Defendant has blatantly invaded or allowed for the 
invasion of Plaintiff and Class members’ privacy  rights.  Plaintiff seeks 
to rectify these harms under federal, state, and common law  causes of 
action, pursuing actual damages, statutory damages, pre - and post -
judgment interest, reasonable costs and attorneys’ fees, a declaratory 
judgment, injunctive relief and any other relief this Court deems just 
and proper.  
JURISDICTION AND VENUE  
16. Subject Matter Jurisdiction.  This Court has federal question 
subject matter jurisdiction pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1331 as well as 
pursuant to the Class Action Fairness Act of 2005 (“CAFA”), 28 U.S.C. § 
1332(d).  As required by CAFA, the amount in controversy exceeds the 
Case 1:26-cv-02405     Document 1     Filed 04/22/26     Page 7 of 45 PageID #: 7

7 
sum of $5,000,000 exclusive of interests and costs, there are well over 
100 putative Class members, and minimal diversity exists because one 
or more putative Class members are citizens of a different state than 
Defendant.  Namely, numerous members of the putative Class are 
domiciled in states around the country other than New York. 
17. Additionally, this Court has supplemental jurisdiction over 
Plaintiff’s state law claims which are anchored by Plaintiff’ s Electronic 
Communications Privacy Act claim.  
18. Personal Jurisdiction.  This Court has personal jurisdiction 
over the litigants because Plaintiff Phillips is located in New York , 
Defendant is headquartered in New York, Defendant is registered to do 
business in New York, Defendant’s acts or practices were directed 
toward this State (and thus, Defendant intentionally availed itself of this 
jurisdiction by choosing to do business in New York ) and, since the 
Defendant website is used throughout the United States, Defendant 
knew or should have known that tracking technologies were being used 
to intercept the actions of Class members in New York.   
19. Venue.  Venue is proper because Defendant is headquartered 
in and conducts business in this District, (2) Defendant ’s acts or 
Case 1:26-cv-02405     Document 1     Filed 04/22/26     Page 8 of 45 PageID #: 8

8 
omissions were directed toward this District, (3) a substantial part of the 
events, acts and omissions giving rise to Class members’ claims occurred 
here, and (4) because Class members were harmed here. 
PARTIES 
PLAINTIFF 
Plaintiff Andrew Phillips 
20. Plaintiff Phillips is domiciled in the state of New York.  
21. During the relevant period, in December of 2025, Plaintiff 
Phillips visited Defendant’s website to book airfare on Defendant’s 
website, including a flight from New York to Florida .  Plaintiff Phillips 
provided his destination and arrival locations, information on his desired 
form of airfare accommodations (e.g., his seating) , the personally 
identifiable information required to book a flight (e.g., his name, address, 
government identification numbers, gender, etc.) and his payment 
information.  Additionally, the tracking code collects other information, 
including whether or not the Plaintiff closed the website, a Google 
identifier, and other data which is detailed below.  
22. While on Defendant’s website, Plaintiff Phillips was entirely 
unaware that he was being tracked for the purpose of setting pricing. 
Case 1:26-cv-02405     Document 1     Filed 04/22/26     Page 9 of 45 PageID #: 9

9 
23. Not only was Plaintiff Phillips not adequately informed about 
the sale of his data to these third parties, but he was not adequately 
given compensation for his sensitive and valuable information.  
24. Plaintiff Phillips has suffered the following injuries from (1) 
the interception of his private and valuable data, (2) the disclosure of his 
private and valuable data to unauthorized third parties, and (3) the 
failure to justly compensate Plaintiff  Phillips for his valuable 
information: 
a. The loss of value of personally identifiable information and/or 
travel data that might be associated with Plaintiff  Phillips’ 
visits to Defendant’s website;  
b. Intrusion upon Plaintiff Phillips’ and Class members’ privacy 
on Defendant’s website where it was reasonable for Plaintiff 
Phillips and Class members to have an expectation of 
privacy;  
c. Lack of compensation for the sale of Plaintiff Phillips and 
Class members’ data; and  
Case 1:26-cv-02405     Document 1     Filed 04/22/26     Page 10 of 45 PageID #: 10

10 
d. Profiting from the collection, retention, use and/or sale of 
Plaintiff Phillips and Class members’ data in a way that 
would be inequitable sans disgorgement of profit.  
25. Had Plaintiff Phillips known about the surreptitious 
collection and tracking of his PII, he would not have used a different 
airline or booked travel a third party travel website.  
DEFENDANT 
 Defendant JetBlue Airways Corporation 
26. Defendant JetBlue Airways Corporation is a corporation with 
its principal place of business located in Long Island City, New York. 
27. Defendant is a sophisticated business that provides airline 
tickets and other airfare to millions of Americans on an annual basis – 
indeed, it is one of the largest airlines in the United States. 
28. In the course of doing business, Defendant maintains a 
website at the following URL address: www.jetblue.com.  This website is 
used by patients seeking airline tickets , like Plaintiff and Class 
members. 
 
 
Case 1:26-cv-02405     Document 1     Filed 04/22/26     Page 11 of 45 PageID #: 11

11 
 
 
 
FACTUAL ALLEGATIONS 
Defendant’s Business and Data Collection 
29. Defendant is an American low -cost airline which is 
headquartered in Queens, New York City.  Defendant’s primary hub is 
John F. Kennedy International Airport, which destinations across the 
United States.  Currently, Defendant has over 279 planes in their fl eet 
and travels to 111 destinations.   
30. Defendant provides flights to airline fliers by assisting with 
the process of booking both through its website and on third party 
websites.  In order to do this, the patients who use the Defendant’s 
website provide Defendant with significant data to find the right 
flight(s). 
31. By its very nature, Defendant – a business which is 
frequented by Plaintiff and Class members – is the type of business that 
requires heightened levels of privacy.  The collection of data is highly 
sensitive, which is why Defendant promises discretion both in the way 
Case 1:26-cv-02405     Document 1     Filed 04/22/26     Page 12 of 45 PageID #: 12

12 
it conducts its business as well as with respect to the data it collects 
through its website (and through other means).  Including in its “privacy 
choices” page which states that “[o]ur privacy commitments are 
fundamental to the way we run our business” and that “[Defendant] may 
share information that does not identify you (including information that 
has been aggregated or de-identified).”  This can be seen below:  
 
32. Additionally, the banner pop -up which Defendant uses does 
not disclose the use of data collection for the purpose of surveillance 
pricing:  
 
Case 1:26-cv-02405     Document 1     Filed 04/22/26     Page 13 of 45 PageID #: 13

13 
 
33. No reasonable consumer would presume that this banner 
pop-up would include the collection and use of their data through cookies 
to set pricing – let alone to share it with third parties to do so.  
34. Furthermore, Defendant initially seems to understand the 
critical nature of protecting passenger data; but immediately contradicts 
itself stating that aspects of the website do not work unless users opt 
into the data sharing.  Even so – if consumers opt into Defendant’s data 
sharing, the Privacy Policy does not disclose that their information is 
being used to set prices.  In fact, these are the only purposes for data 
collection, retention, and use that Defendant discloses with respect to its 
Privacy Policy:  
a. Use by Service Providers (payment processing, travel and 
booking reservation, identity verification, data analytics, 
Case 1:26-cv-02405     Document 1     Filed 04/22/26     Page 14 of 45 PageID #: 14

14 
marketing and advertising, website hosting, and technical 
support);  
b. Vendors and Other Parties (advertising and analytics); 
c. Affiliates (customer support, marketing, booking, advertising 
and technical operations); 
d. Partners (for services and distribution of products or joint 
ventures); 
e. Promotions; 
f. Public Forums; 
g. Merger and Acquisition; 
h. Security or Compelled Disclosure (to law enforcement and 
other authorities); 
i. Facilitating Requests (via social media); and  
j. Consent.  
35. There are no disclosures of the use of consumer data for the 
purpose of dynamic surveillance pricing.  And the data that the Privacy 
Policy purports to collect is vast:  
a. Contact Data (first and last name, email address, postal 
address, telephone number); 
Case 1:26-cv-02405     Document 1     Filed 04/22/26     Page 15 of 45 PageID #: 15

15 
b. Billing Information; 
c. Demographic Data (age, gender, and country of origin); 
d. Profile Data (interests, inferences, preferences, and 
favorites); 
e. Content (posted on forums or on JetBlue’s blogs); 
f. Personal Contacts and Passenger Data; 
g. Job Applicant Data (if applicable); 
36. Finally, Defendant lists the types of data collected through 
tracking technology (while not disclosing that the end use is for dynamic 
surveillance pricing):  
a. Internet Protocol address;  
b. Device Identifier; 
c. Browser Type and Version; 
d. Operating System and Platform; 
e. Mobile Device Type;  
f. Wireless Carrier;  
g. Data Regarding Network Connected Hardware; 
h. The Time Spent Engaging With JetBlue’s Services; 
i. Page Views; 
Case 1:26-cv-02405     Document 1     Filed 04/22/26     Page 16 of 45 PageID #: 16

16 
j. Information Searched For; 
k. Geo-Location Data;  
l. Pages Visited; 
m. Content and Advertisements Viewed; 
n. Products and Services Viewed; 
o. Purchases and Purchase History; 
p. Time of Day When Browsing; 
q. Referring Pages; and,  
r. Exiting Pages.  
37. Defendant makes privacy assurances and representations 
which directly contradict the reason and rationale for the types of data 
that they collect .  Privacy-based representations are material 
components of the services that Defendant has to offer through its 
website: Defendant knows this otherwise those representations (which, 
as discussed below, are false) and the manner in which those 
representations are made are done so to drive goodwill, website traffic, 
and consumer trust to Defendant.  
38. Defendant can also make significant assumptions based off 
of the data it collects which impact pricing.  For example, historically, 
Case 1:26-cv-02405     Document 1     Filed 04/22/26     Page 17 of 45 PageID #: 17

17 
the “Operating System and Platform” a consumer uses may seem benign 
– but it is commonly weaponized as a means to tell the socioeconomic 
status of a consumer, as those who use Apple’s iOS operating system and 
platforms are often wealthier than those who us e an Android operating 
system and platform.  Additionally, Defendant collects information 
about the geographic location (geo -location) of consumers, which allows 
them to adjust prices based on someone’s zip code or the socioeconomic 
class of where they live or are located. 
39. This is all highly concerning. It allows Defendant to 
manipulate prices in real time in order to make as much money as they 
can on fares for airline tickets which are priced differently for consumers 
based on their private information which they did not co nsent to 
surrender for this purpose.  
Defendant’s Surveillance Pricing 
 
40. Rather than keep this private information (the information 
collected as well as the datapoint itself that Plaintiff had visited the 
JetBlue website at all) protected,  Defendant instead opted to make it 
available for collection , weaponize it for pricing purposes,  and share it 
with other third parties like FullStory and PROS. 
Case 1:26-cv-02405     Document 1     Filed 04/22/26     Page 18 of 45 PageID #: 18

18 
41. Defendant either knew (and was likely profiting from) or 
should have known that third parties were using its website to collect 
data.  It defies logic to believe that FullStory and PROS would merely 
collect, retain, and otherwise use Defendant’s data for free.  These third 
parties used tracking technologies to collect data on Plaintiff and Class 
members, then used those technologies to analyze consumer behavior 
and ultimately change prices.  
42. For example, this line of code shows the presence of FullStory 
on JetBlue’s homepage where consumers can enter in information 
seeking flights.  It shows that FullStory has tracking technology on this 
page, and the use of the code in its URL address, “^$3p”  denotes a 
request for data from a third party.  
 
43. Other third parties are present on JetBlue’s homepage, 
including other analytics firms such as TrustArc, which collects 
Case 1:26-cv-02405     Document 1     Filed 04/22/26     Page 19 of 45 PageID #: 19

19 
information including when a page is open or closed as well as when a 
new session is started on JetBlue’s website: 
 
44. Counsel for Plaintiff Phillips then replicated the same search 
for a flight from New York to Jacksonville, to find additional tracking 
mechanisms: 
 
45. JetBlue also allows for the presence of Google Tag Pixels, 
which individually identify consumers, contrary to the privacy policy’s 
promise to otherwise not do so.  
46. JetBlue itself uses tracking mechanisms through cookies 
which can be used to set pricing.  For example, JetBlue collects a 
Case 1:26-cv-02405     Document 1     Filed 04/22/26     Page 20 of 45 PageID #: 20

20 
substantial amount of consumer data using tracking technologies when 
booking the same flight which Plaintiff Phillips had booked in December 
of 2025: 
 
47. As seen in the code, it collects the passenger type (adults, 
children or infants), the departure and destination data, the proposed 
dates of travel, whether or not the fares should be flagged as round trip 
(which presumably impacts the price) the booking o rigin (Defendant’s 
website), the region of booking (United States) and the language used to 
book the flight (English).  Each of these are data points which do not 
need to be collected through surreptitious tracking technology – 
Case 1:26-cv-02405     Document 1     Filed 04/22/26     Page 21 of 45 PageID #: 21

21 
especially given that a consumer would willingly give them over to the 
Defendant.  The reason for this is because this data is necessary to feed 
into algorithms from JetBlue directly to third parties like PROS.  
48. JetBlue uses dynamic pricing powered by its own data since 
2024.4  Apparently, airlines have used dynamic pricing for decades – 
including products like those created by PROS – which JetBlue currently 
uses.  In fact, when JetBlue began to use PROS revenue management 
dynamic pricing system, PROS touted its use as a “custo mer success 
story.”  At the time, on June 13, 2025, PROS stated, “JetBlue set out to 
solve a persistent challenge: forecast accuracy.  With previous revenue 
management systems falling short, the team was forced to rely heavily 
on manual overrides – hindering efficiency and trust in the data.” 
49. The job of PROS is to set prices through algorithms, and 
algorithms due this through the collection of data.  According to the 
Financial Times in 2017, “PROS says its algorithms set more prices each 
day than Twitter sends tweets.”  
50. Today, PROS uses real -time dynamic pricing which sets 
pricing at the time of the transaction to maximize revenue – the only 
 
4 https://www.timeout.com/usa/news/jetblue-increased-its-bag-fees-as-oil-prices-rise-033126, 
(last accessed April 22, 2026).  
Case 1:26-cv-02405     Document 1     Filed 04/22/26     Page 22 of 45 PageID #: 22

22 
way that PROS would be able to set said pricing is to have the data 
points to do it: which come from consumers.  As PROS explains, its real 
time dynamic pricing “enables airlines to offer prices to their customers 
based on contextual information available at the time of shopping.” 
PROS has a model of this on its website:  
 
 
51. Additionally, PROS’s 2024 annual report states that their 
software adapts based on the particular customer, “[o]ur AI -powered 
Case 1:26-cv-02405     Document 1     Filed 04/22/26     Page 23 of 45 PageID #: 23

23 
algorithms provide market relevant price guidance, dynamically 
refining prices in response to changing market conditions and buyer 
behavior.  This predictive and prescriptive price guidance tailors pricing 
for each unique buying scenario.”  
52. Again, none of this would have been possible had JetBlue not 
been collecting this data in the first instance: let alone sharing it with 
third parties like FullStory, PROS and others.  
53. However, the picture becomes clearer considering JetBlue 
itself admitted to using cookie collected data on its booking pages in 
order to adjust airfare pricing.  Which, again, can be seen below: 
 
54. This sensitive information and identifying data is highly 
valuable, and because a variety of different end -users could have 
Case 1:26-cv-02405     Document 1     Filed 04/22/26     Page 24 of 45 PageID #: 24

24 
utilization for it, it maintains its value as it is collected, sold, and resold.  
Defendant allows for the collection of this data at its primary source: 
directly from Plaintiff and Class members themselves.  
55. The reason that Defendant collects this data is because it has 
an even higher value than ordinary data  – it allows tangible increases 
in pricing for airline tickets, which Defendant admitted.   
The Harms of Surveillance Pricing 
56. Surveillance pricing is the use of personal data, like 
“browsing history, spending habits, location, or even signals about […] 
income to figure out what you’re likely willing to pay and then adjust 
accordingly.”5  While surveillance pricing is not illegal in the United 
States, secretly collecting consumer data on the internet without 
adequate consent is - and that is the basis for this Action.  
57. According to Lindsay Owens, a privacy expert who leads the 
Groundwork Collaborative think -tank: “JetBlue accidentally tweeted 
their cold -blooded confession that they are using consumers’ search 
history against them to drive up prices.”6 
 
5 https://www.travelpirates.com/captains-log/jetblue-surveillance-pricing-explained, (last 
accessed Apr. 22, 2026).  
 
6 Id.  
Case 1:26-cv-02405     Document 1     Filed 04/22/26     Page 25 of 45 PageID #: 25

25 
58. According to Grace Gedye, senior policy analyst at Consumer 
Reports: “We are seeing more evidence of these types of pricing practices 
and call on lawmakers to introduce new rules that would require 
transparency in pricing practices and prohibit surveillance pricing.”7 
59. Naturally, JetBlue denied this practice, stating that the 
admission was “incorrect and we apologize for the error.”  It also added 
“JetBlue fares on JetBlue.com and our mobile app[lication] are not 
determined by cached data or any other personal informatio n.  We do 
not use AI or personal data to set individual pricing.  All customers have 
access to the same fares.”8 
60. The Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) has begun to define 
the mechanics of surveillance pricing:  
 
 
7 Id. 
8 Id. 
Case 1:26-cv-02405     Document 1     Filed 04/22/26     Page 26 of 45 PageID #: 26

26 
 
61. According to former FTC Commissioner Lina M. Khan, 
“Firms that harvest Americans’ personal data can put people’s privacy 
at risk.  Now firms could be exploiting this vast trove of personal 
information to charge people higher prices.  Americans deserve to know 
Case 1:26-cv-02405     Document 1     Filed 04/22/26     Page 27 of 45 PageID #: 27

27 
whether businesses are using detailed consumer data to deploy 
surveillance pricing.”9 
62. Additionally, Congress is now taking action against JetBlue 
for their use of surveillance pricing, including a letter sent by United 
States Senator Ruben Gallego and House of Representatives member 
Greg Casar which called for responses to JetBlue’s use of personal data 
for setting of fare prices.10  In part the letter states about the social media 
post, “[w]hile JetBlue claimed in the wake of this post that fares are not 
‘determined’ by cached data or personal information, this exchange 
raises questions about how JetBlue sets prices – specifically, how 
JetBlue is defining personal data and whether the personal data is used 
in any capacity to inform prices.  We are especially concerned that 
customers could be charged different prices for the same flight based on 
their need for travel, such as attending a funeral.”11 
63. Defendant’s conduct violates numerous laws as well as basic 
notions of consumer privacy. 
 
9 https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/news/press-releases/2024/07/ftc-issues-orders-eight-
companies-seeking-information-surveillance-pricing, (last accessed Apr. 22, 2026).  
 
10 Exhibit A: Letter from Congress to JetBlue Airlines re Surveillance Pricing.  
11 Id.  
 
Case 1:26-cv-02405     Document 1     Filed 04/22/26     Page 28 of 45 PageID #: 28

28 
Defendant’s Conduct Offends Basic Privacy Rights. 
64. Defendant’s services come with a reasonable expectation of 
privacy that exists because of the sensitive nature of the type of work 
that Defendant does and the representations that Defendant makes on 
its website .  The same holds true for airline passengers  who 
electronically walk into digital storefronts.  These airline passengers  
deserve the same privacy rights afforded to ordinary consumers who 
walk up to a physical ticketing counter .  This is especially true here, 
where Plaintiff and Class members did not anticipate, invite, or 
adequately consent to the presence of other third -party corporations 
looking over their digital shoulders as they transact business with 
Defendant.  
65. The identifying datapoints collected by Defendant (device 
identifiers, internet protocol address(es), usernames and login 
information, etc.) in tandem with the information that Plaintiff accessed 
Defendant’s website to procure services, on their own, is highly sensitive 
information.   
66. Rather than protect this information, as well as other 
potential data collected Defendant allows it to be collected, retained and 
Case 1:26-cv-02405     Document 1     Filed 04/22/26     Page 29 of 45 PageID #: 29

29 
used by third parties  which lack sufficient consent from Plaintiff and 
Class members to do so.  
The Value of Consumer Data 
67. Plaintiff and Class members were harmed when Defendant 
invaded their privacy rights by  weaponizing their data for surveillance 
pricing through Defendant’s website .  Reasonable airline passengers , 
who are consumers, would not have used Defendant’s website had they 
known that their privacy rights would be invaded as a result.  
68. PII is extremely valuable.  There is a huge market for the 
data collected on Defendant’s website.  Plaintiff and Class members have 
suffered pecuniary losses when Defendant sold and allowed for the 
resale of their data to unauthorized third parties because of the value of 
the data itself.  The market for this data also has tangible value – 
including the use of the data to increase prices for airfare tickets.  
 
Harm to Consumers 
69. Plaintiff and Class members provided their data to 
Defendant to obtain information regarding the travel services  that 
Defendant provides – services which happen to be highly personal and 
Case 1:26-cv-02405     Document 1     Filed 04/22/26     Page 30 of 45 PageID #: 30

30 
very private.  This information was disclosed to and intercepted by the 
third-parties, including FullStory,  as listed herein through digital 
tracking technology.  This information was collected and intercepted for 
business purposes, including to  monitor consumer behavior and adjust 
airline pricing accordingly.  
70. Plaintiff did not adequately consent to the interception or 
disclosure of their data to these third parties, or to anyone else.  As such, 
Plaintiff ha ve suffered from the type of privacy -centric harms that a 
patchwork of privacy protections which federal, state, and common law 
principles were intended to collectively protect against.  
CLASS ACTION ALLEGATIONS 
71. Plaintiff brings this Action pursuant to Federal Rule of Civil 
Procedure 23 individually and on behalf of the following Classes 
(collectively, the “Class”):  
 
Nationwide Class: All natural persons in the United States 
who used the Defendant’s website and/or mobile application 
and whose communications and/or data was shared with third 
parties during the applicable statutory period.  
 
New York Sub -Class: All natural persons in the state of 
New York who used the Defendant’s website and/or mobile 
application and whose communications and/or data was 
shared with third parties during the applicable statutory 
Case 1:26-cv-02405     Document 1     Filed 04/22/26     Page 31 of 45 PageID #: 31

31 
period.  
 
 
72. Excluded from the Class are: (1) any Judge or Magistrate 
presiding over this action and any members of their immediate families; 
(2) the Defendant, Defendant’s subsidiaries, affiliates, parents, 
successors, predecessors, and any entity in which the Defendant or their 
parents have a controlling interest and their current or former 
employees, officers, and directors; and (3) Plaintiff ’s counsel and 
Defendant’s counsel.  
73. Numerosity.  The exact number of members of the Class is 
unknown and unavailable to Plaintiff at this time, but individual joinder 
in this case is impracticable. The Class likely consists of thousands or 
even millions of individuals, and the members can be identifie d through 
Defendant’s records.  
74. Predominant Common Questions .  The Class’s claims 
present common questions of law and fact, and those questions 
predominate over any questions that may affect individual Class 
members. Common questions for the Class include, but are not limited 
to, the following:  
a. Whether Defendant violated Plaintiff ’s and Class members’ 
Case 1:26-cv-02405     Document 1     Filed 04/22/26     Page 32 of 45 PageID #: 32

32 
privacy rights;  
b. Whether Defendant violated the Electronic Communications 
Privacy Act; 
c. Whether Defendant’s acts and practices violated state 
consumer protection laws; 
d. Whether Defendant’s conduct is a breach of implied contract; 
e. Whether Defendant was unjustly enriched; 
f. Whether Plaintiff and the Class are entitled to equitable 
relief, including but not limited to injunctive relief, 
restitution, and disgorgement; and,  
g. Whether Plaintiff and the Class are entitled to actual, 
statutory, punitive and/or other forms of damages, and other 
monetary relief.  
75. Typicality.  Plaintiff’s claims are typical of the claims of the 
other members of the Class and arise from the same conduct by 
Defendant and are based on the same legal theories. 
76. Adequate Representation.  Plaintiff have and will continue 
to fairly and adequately represent and protect the interests of the Class.  
Plaintiff ha ve retained counsel competent and experienced in complex 
Case 1:26-cv-02405     Document 1     Filed 04/22/26     Page 33 of 45 PageID #: 33

33 
litigation and class actions, including litigations to remedy privacy 
violations.  Plaintiff has no interest that is antagonistic to the interests 
of the Class, and Defendant has no defenses unique to any victim.  
Plaintiff and their counsel are committed to vigorously prosecuting this 
action on behalf of the members of the Class, and they have the resources 
to do so.  Neither Plaintiff nor their counsel have any interest adverse to 
the interests of the other members of the Class.  
77. This class action is appropriate for certification because class 
proceedings are superior to other available methods for the fair and 
efficient adjudication of this controversy, and joinder of all members of 
the Class is impracticable.  This proposed class  action presents fewer 
management difficulties than individual litigation, and provides the 
benefits of single adjudication, economies of scale, and comprehensive 
supervision by a single court.  Class treatment will create economies of 
time, effort, and expense and promote uniform decision-making.  
78. Plaintiff may revise the foregoing class allegations and 
definitions based on facts learned and legal developments following 
additional investigation, discovery, or otherwise. 
 
 
Case 1:26-cv-02405     Document 1     Filed 04/22/26     Page 34 of 45 PageID #: 34

34 
 
 
FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION 
 
VIOLATIONS OF THE ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS 
PRIVACY ACT 
18 U.S.C. § 2510 et seq. 
(ON BEHALF OF THE NATIONWIDE CLASS) 
 
79. Plaintiff re-alleges and incorporates all preceding paragraphs 
with the same force and effect as if fully restated herein. 
80. The Electronic Communications Privacy Act (“ECPA”) makes 
it illegal intentionally to intercept, or attempt to intercept, any wire, oral, 
or electronic communication and to disclose or use the contents of an 
unlawfully intercepted communication. 18 U.S.C. § 2511. 
81. ECPA provides a private right of action to any person whose 
electronic communications are intercepted. 18 U.S.C. § 2520(a). 
82. Defendant intentionally intercepted electronic 
communications that Plaintiff and the Class members exchanged with 
Defendant through the tracking tools installed on its website.  
83. The transmission of data between Plaintiff and the Class 
members and Defendant qualify as communications under ECPA. 18 
U.S.C. § 2510(12).  
84. Defendant contemporaneously intercepted and transmitted 
Case 1:26-cv-02405     Document 1     Filed 04/22/26     Page 35 of 45 PageID #: 35

35 
Plaintiff’s and the Class members’ communications of that data to the 
companies whose trackers Defendant installed or allowed to be installed 
on its website  as well as for the purpose of engaging in third party 
tracking for behavioral analysis to modify ticket pricing.  
85. The trackers that Defendant uses to track Plaintiff and the 
Class members’ communications, Plaintiff and the Class members’ 
browsers, Plaintiff and the Class members’ computing devices, and the 
code that Defendant placed or allowed to be placed on its website are all 
“devices” within the meaning of 18 U.S.C. § 2510(5). 
86. The third party companies, including FullStory, that are the 
recipients of communications between Plaintiff and the Class members, 
on the one hand, and Defendant, on the other, are not party to those 
communications. 
87. Defendant transmits the contents of those communications 
through the surreptitious redirection of the communications from 
Plaintiff and the Class members’ computing devices. 
88. Plaintiff and the Class members did not consent to the third 
party companies’ acquisition of their communications with Defendant. 
Nor did the third party companies receive adequate legal authorization 
Case 1:26-cv-02405     Document 1     Filed 04/22/26     Page 36 of 45 PageID #: 36

36 
to receive such communications. 
89. In disclosing the content of Plaintiff’s and the Class members’ 
communications relating to the purchase and use of Defendant’s 
products, Defendant had a purpose that was tortious, criminal, and 
designed to violate statutory provisions including: 
a. The unauthorized disclosure of individually identifiable 
information is tortious in and of itself, regardless whether the 
means deployed to disclose the information violates the 
ECPA or any subsequent purpose or use. Defendant 
intentionally committed a tor tious act by disclosing 
individually personally identifiable  information without 
authorization to do so; 
b. Intrusion upon Plaintiff’s and the Class members’ seclusion; 
c. Trespass upon Plaintiff ’s and the Class members’ personal 
and private property; and  
d. Violation of 18 U.S.C. §§ 1343 (fraud by wire, radio, or 
television) and 1349 (attempt and conspiracy) which prohibit 
a person from “devising or intending to devise any scheme or 
artifice to defraud, or for obtaining money or property by 
Case 1:26-cv-02405     Document 1     Filed 04/22/26     Page 37 of 45 PageID #: 37

37 
means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations or 
promises, transmits or causes to be transmitted by means of 
wire, radio, or television communication in interstate … 
commerce, any writing, signs, signals, pictures, or sounds for 
purpose of executing such scheme or artifice.” 
90. The federal wire fraud statute, 18 U.S.C. § 1343, has four 
elements: (1) that the defendant voluntarily and intentionally devised a 
scheme to defraud another out of money or property; (2) that the 
defendant did so with intent to defraud; (3) that it was re asonably 
foreseeable that interstate wire communications would be used; and (4) 
that interstate wire communications were used. The attempt version of 
the statute provides that penalties apply to attempts as well as offenses. 
18 U.S.C. § 1349.  
91. Defendant’s scheme or artifice to defraud consists of the false 
and misleading statements in its privacy policy described herein. 
92. Defendant acted with intent to defraud in that it willfully 
invaded and took Plaintiff and the Class members’ property, including 
the property rights to their individually personally identifiable 
information and their right to determine whether such information 
Case 1:26-cv-02405     Document 1     Filed 04/22/26     Page 38 of 45 PageID #: 38

38 
remains confidential; the right to determine who may collect and use 
such information for marketing; and the right to determine who has 
access to their devices and communications.  
93. Defendant also acted with intent to defraud in that it 
willfully invaded and took Plaintiff and the Class members’ property 
(their PII) with knowledge that it lacked consent or authorization to do 
so; a reasonable consumer would not understand that Defenda nt was 
collecting and transmitting their data to third parties; a reasonable 
consumer would be shocked to realize the extent of Defendant’s 
disclosure of data to third parties for the purpose of behavioral analytics 
and surveillance pricing 
94. Defendant acted with the intent to acquire, use, and disclose 
Plaintiff’s and the Class members’ PII without their authorization or 
consent. 
95. Plaintiff and the Class members have suffered damages 
because of Defendant’s violations of ECPA, including that (1) Defendant 
eroded the essential, confidential nature of the relationship between 
Defendant and Class members, (2) Defendant derived valuable benefits 
from using and sharing Plaintiff and the Class members’ 
Case 1:26-cv-02405     Document 1     Filed 04/22/26     Page 39 of 45 PageID #: 39

39 
communications without their knowledge or informed consent and 
without providing compensation, ( 3) Defendant’s actions deprived 
Plaintiff and the Class members of the value of their PII, (4) Defendant’s 
actions diminished the value of Plaintiff ’s and the Class members’ 
property rights in their PII; and (6) Defendant violated Plaintiff and the 
Class members’ privacy rights by sharing their PII for commercial use.  
96. Plaintiff and the Class members seek appropriate 
declaratory or equitable relief including injunctive relief, actual 
damages and profits enjoyed by Defendant due to the violations or the 
appropriate statutory measure of damages, punitive damages, and 
reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs. 18 U.S.C. § 2520. Pursuant to 18 
U.S.C. § 2520, Plaintiff and the Class members seek monetary damages 
for the greater of (i) the sum of the actual damages suffered by the 
plaintiff and any profits made by Defendant due to t he violation or (ii) 
statutory damages of whichever is greater of $100 a day for each 
violation or $10,000. 
97. Unless enjoined, Defendant will continue to commit the 
violations of law described herein.  
 
 
Case 1:26-cv-02405     Document 1     Filed 04/22/26     Page 40 of 45 PageID #: 40

40 
SECOND CAUSE OF ACTION 
 
VIOLATIONS OF NEW YORK’S  
DECEPTIVE TRADE PRACTICES ACT  
N.Y. GEN. BUS. LAW §349 
(ON BEHALF OF BOTH THE NATIONWIDE CLASS  
AND STATE SUBCLASS) 
 
98. Plaintiff re-alleges and incorporates all preceding paragraphs 
with the same force and effect as if fully restated herein. 
99. Defendant is considered a ‘business’ under New York General 
Business Law 349 (“GBL 349”).  
100. Defendant’s business acts and practices are unfair and 
deceptive under GBL 349.  New York (as well as other states through 
their respective unfair and deceptive trade practices statutes) has a 
strong public policy of protecting consumers’ privacy interests, including 
protecting consumers’ personal data.  Defendant violated GBL 349 by, 
among other things, disclosing and intercepting Plaintiff ’s and Class 
members’ sensitive data, including private information, without consent. 
101. Defendant further engaged in unfair business practices 
because it made material misrepresentations and omissions concerning 
the information that it assured users it would not share with third parties 
in the manner that it did, which deceived and misled users of Defendant’s 
Case 1:26-cv-02405     Document 1     Filed 04/22/26     Page 41 of 45 PageID #: 41

41 
platform.  
102. Defendant’s business acts and practices are also “unfair” in 
that they are immoral, unethical, oppressive, unscrupulous, and/or 
substantially injurious to consumers.  The gravity of the harm of 
Defendant secretly disclosing, intercepting, and misusing Plai ntiff and 
Class members’ sensitive and highly valuable personal data is 
significant, and there is no corresponding benefit resulting from such 
conduct.   
103. Finally, because Plaintiff and Class members were completely 
unaware of Defendant’s conduct, they could not have possibly avoided the 
harm.  
104. Indeed, although Defendant’s privacy policy states that 
Defendant uses and shares personal information in certain 
circumstances, Plaintiff and the Class members cannot give informed 
consent for this type of collection given it was not included in the privacy 
policy.   
105. By unlawfully disclosing and intercepting this data, 
Defendant has taken money or property from Plaintiff and Class 
members. 
Case 1:26-cv-02405     Document 1     Filed 04/22/26     Page 42 of 45 PageID #: 42

42 
106. Plaintiff and the Class Members seek all available damages 
under applicable state consumer protection laws, including statutory 
damages under GBL 349.  
THIRD CAUSE OF ACTION 
 
VIOLATIONS OF NEW YORK’S  
UNLAWFUL SELLING PRACTICES ACT 
N.Y. GEN. BUS. LAW §396 
(ON BEHALF OF BOTH THE NATIONWIDE CLASS  
AND STATE SUBCLASSES) 
 
107. Plaintiff re-alleges and incorporates all preceding paragraphs 
with the same force and effect as if fully restated herein. 
108. Under New York General Business Law §396 (GBL §396), 
unlawful selling practices are prohibited and can be enforced by private 
plaintiffs in civil litigation.  
109. Specifically, GBL §396 prohibits the offering “for sale any 
merchandise, commodity, or service, as part of a plan or scheme with the 
intent, design, or purpose not to sell the merchandise, commodity, or 
service so advertised at the price stated therein.”  GBL §396(1).  
110. In this instance, Defendant sells the same airline tickets for 
set prices – only to change those prices with the intent not to sell them if 
the consumer’s personal data determines otherwise.  For example, if the 
Case 1:26-cv-02405     Document 1     Filed 04/22/26     Page 43 of 45 PageID #: 43

43 
consumer, like Plaintiff Phillips, exits the Defendant’s website, the 
Defendant then has the capacity to change prices and not sell them as 
advertised with the intent, design, or purpose to do so based on the 
personal information collected about Plaintiff Phillips.  
111. Under this provision, Plaintiff and Class members can pursue 
actual damages, $500 per violation, attorneys’ fees, and any other relief 
this Court deems just and proper.  
DEMAND FOR RELIEF 
WHEREFORE, Plaintiff on behalf of himself and the proposed Class 
respectfully requests that the Court enter an order:  
A. Certifying the Class and appointing Plaintiff as the Class  
representative;  
B. Finding that Defendant’s conduct was unlawful, as alleged herein;  
C. Awarding declaratory relief against Defendant;  
D. Awarding such injunctive and other equitable relief as the Court 
deems just and proper, including injunctive relief; 
E. Awarding Plaintiff and the Class members statutory, actual, 
compensatory, consequential, punitive, and nominal damages;  
F. Awarding Plaintiff and the Class members pre-judgment and post-
Case 1:26-cv-02405     Document 1     Filed 04/22/26     Page 44 of 45 PageID #: 44

44 
judgment interest;  
G. Awarding Plaintiff and the Class members reasonable attorneys’ 
fees, costs, and expenses; and  
H. Granting such other relief as the Court deems just and proper.  
JURY TRIAL DEMANDED 
112. Pursuant to Rule 38(b) of the Federal Rules of Civil 
Procedure, Plaintiff demands a jury trial as to all issues triable by a jury.  
DATED:    April 22, 2026           
Respectfully Submitted,  
      
 /s/ Blake Hunter Yagman   
      Blake Hunter Yagman 
blake.yagman@yagmanpllc.com 
      YAGMAN PLLC 
      The Foundry Building 
      1050 30th Street, N.W. 
      Georgetown, Washington D.C. 20007 
      Telephone:  929-709-1493 
 
      Attorney for Plaintiff Phillips 
and the Proposed Classes 
 
Case 1:26-cv-02405     Document 1     Filed 04/22/26     Page 45 of 45 PageID #: 45