Corrected Transcript 
 
 
1-877-FACTSET   www.callstreet.com 
Total Pages: 43 
Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 
 
20 -Nov -2024  
Delta Air Lines, Inc.  (DAL ) 
Investor Day

Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL) 
Investor Day 
Corrected Transcript 
20-Nov-2024 
 
 
1-877-FACTSET   www.callstreet.com 
 2 
Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 
 
 
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS  
 
Julie Stewart 
Vice President‐Investor Relations & Corporate Development, Delta Air 
Lines, Inc. 
Edward Herman Bastian 
Chief Executive Officer & Director, Delta Air Lines, Inc. 
Glen William Hauenstein 
President, Delta Air Lines, Inc. 
Daniel C. Janki 
Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Delta Air Lines, Inc. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
 
OTHER PARTICIPANTS  
 
Duane Pfennigwerth 
Analyst, Evercore ISI 
Jamie N. Baker 
Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC 
Conor Cunningham 
Analyst, Melius Research LLC 
Scott H. Group 
Analyst, Wolfe Research LLC 
Sheila Kahyaoglu 
Analyst, Jefferies LLC 
Ravi Shanker 
Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC 
Brandon R. Oglenski 
Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. 
David Vernon 
Analyst, Bernstein Institutional Services LLC 
Savanthi Syth 
Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc. 
Andrew G. Didora 
Analyst, BofA Securities, Inc. 
Michael Linenberg 
Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. 
Stephen Darrell Trent 
Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. 
Catherine O'Brien 
Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC 
Christopher Stathoulopoulos 
Analyst, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP 
Daniel McKenzie 
Analyst, Seaport Global Securities LLC 
Thomas Fitzgerald 
Analyst, TD Cowen 
Helane Becker 
Analyst, TD Cowen

Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL) 
Investor Day 
Corrected Transcript 
20-Nov-2024 
 
 
1-877-FACTSET   www.callstreet.com 
 3 
Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 
 
 
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION  
 
Unverified Participant 
 
Please welcome to the stage, Julie Stewart. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Julie Stewart 
Vice President‐Investor Relations & Corporate Development, Delta Air Lines, Inc. 
Welcome to Delta's 2024 Investor Day. It's great to see all of you and to be back in New York. We're excited to 
share today about what's next for Delta. Our theme is differentiated and durable, and you'll hear that throughout 
the morning as we hear from our CEO, Ed Bastian; our President, Glen Hauenstein; and our CFO, Dan Janki. 
We'll take a short break and then we'll come back and have plenty of time for Q&A. 
 
As a reminder, today's presentations contain forward-looking statements that represent our expectations about 
future events. All forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to 
differ materially from the forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause differences are outlined in our SEC 
filings. Today, we'll also talk about non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of those measures are 
available in the appendix of today's deck, which can also be found on the Investor Relations page at ir.delta.com. 
You have a card in front of you with a QR code linking to today's presentation and press release. 
 
And before we get started, I just want to say thank you to the Delta Investor Relations Team and the Delta Events 
team for putting on such a great event. And with that, we'll kick it off with a short video. 
 
[Video Presentation] (00:01:28-00:03:02). 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Unverified Participant 
 
Please welcome to the stage Delta CEO, Ed Bastian. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Edward Herman Bastian 
Chief Executive Officer & Director, Delta Air Lines, Inc. 
Well. Good morning, everyone. I appreciate you joining us, and thank you for those of you that were with us last 
night with Steve Squeri and the American Express team. I thought it was a great introduction into what we're 
talking about in terms of the quality of the product, and the service that we're offering our customers, the 
opportunity, and the runway ahead to continue to grow a great premium relationship. 
 
As Julie said, differentiated and durable are the themes that you're going to hear today. And it's the strategy that 
we've laid out not just for the last couple of years. Candidly, we've been on this strategy for the last 15 years. 
Differentiation across our industry and from our industry has never been greater from our brand to the experience 
we provide to our customers, to the financial leadership that we've demonstrated within this industry. But we also 
understand that volatility is also a challenge in this industry, and differentiation gives us the opportunity to invest in 
durability. And that's what we're doing, and that's what we'll be announcing today as we look at the guideposts 
that you'll be hearing from us today.

Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL) 
Investor Day 
Corrected Transcript 
20-Nov-2024 
 
 
1-877-FACTSET   www.callstreet.com 
 4 
Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 
 
 
Volatility means building a fortress balance sheet, something that hasn't been done in this industry before. And it's 
something that I think when you factor in the risk premium that we face, when people ask the questions all the 
time, how are we going to get the multiple rerated within this space? One of the things we need to take off the 
table is some of the – that risk that we face. In a backdrop where the industry at large, some doing well, some not 
doing well, but continuing to invest in the balance sheet, continuing to pay down debt, continuing to provide a 
great security focus for the future is what we're thinking about. 
 
So you're going to hear about that today. You're going to hear about these three themes as well. We're positioned 
to win like never before. This airline, this brand that we're seeing the momentum is strong and gaining altitude. It's 
a trusted consumer brand delivered by the great Delta people with 15 years of consistent strategy, investment, 
and execution of that strategy. Creating durability, durability are those competitive advantages that we're talking 
about, those enduring competitive advantages, the moats that we have, and the diversity of the revenue streams 
that we create. And all that feeds into value creation and how we take this airline and continue to knock off the 
risk and continue to provide a safe and sustainable value return for our owners. 
 
Now, this slide should look familiar. It's a slide I've used on, I think, virtually every investor presentation I've made 
for the last at least 10 years. And these are our moats. And these are the same moats that we talk about all the 
time. Only every year we go on, the moats just continue to get stronger, and they get deeper, and they're more 
enduring. It's having the very best people. The most important thing in this business are not the planes, it's not the 
destinations, it's not the airports as fancy and interesting as they are. It's the quality of service. I hear from 
customers all day long, every day about everything in this business, they always tell me the most important thing 
we do are none of those. It's the people. It's the people that bring this airline to life with the culture and the best-in-
class service that they provide. The operational reliability, the on-time machine is that unmatched global network 
that we continue to invest in over time. It's the brand that we've created, whether it's with the loyalty with American 
Express or the Net Promoter Scores that our customers tell us on board the plane. 
 
And finally, there's the financial discipline, and the cost discipline, and that balance sheet focus continue to get the 
balance sheet in good order. These are our strategy – this is our strategy. These – these are – while they're our 
moats, they're also our strategies. And the one thing that I'm struck by as I look in this post-COVID era of the 
airline industry, is that just about every airline in our space has changed their strategies post-COVID, whether it's 
trying to add more premium, trying to move differently internationally, or moving geographically in different spots. 
Delta is the only airline that hasn't changed the strategy. This is the same slide we used 10 years ago. It's the 
same slide we're using today. So, it tells you about the alignment within the company. It tells you about the 
consistency of follow through in execution. And this tells you why we're going to continue to gain momentum. And 
you're continuing to look around and continuing to try to go where others aren't, that's tough in this business. 
 
When you have a strategy that's well articulated and well defined from the top of the company all the way through 
to the front line employees execute against it, that's what we're doing. And there's 15 years of investment that sit 
underneath that. I get questions all the time. Are we worried about other airlines trying to go into premium space 
and trying to catch up to us? I said if I were them, I do the same thing. That's where the money is, right. But when 
you think about the investments we've made in the airports, modernizing our fleet, our technology, our free Wi-Fi, 
the international investments and, of course, the most important investments we've made are in our people, it's a 
tough space. And you got to do all that before you become a premium airline. 
 
Now, we were here with our three-year plan in New York in 2021. That was the last time we've talked about a long 
range plan. And I think about that day, and many of you were with us in the room. That day was on the New York 
Stock Exchange. We were starting to learn about this thing called Omicron that was coming, which was the new

Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL) 
Investor Day 
Corrected Transcript 
20-Nov-2024 
 
 
1-877-FACTSET   www.callstreet.com 
 5 
Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 
 
variant of the COVID virus. In fact, half of you were sitting there with masks, listening in. We probably had space 
set aside in that room, and many people weren't even sure whether it was okay to be there, as we were talking 
about it. And we were laying out a three-year plan, and we got a lot of kudos for being bold and courageous with 
all the unknowns that were ahead of us. And I'm impressed with how well we did in forecasting that three-year 
journey that we've been on. We said we're – the three priorities are going to be to deliver the best-in-class 
operations. We did that. Reliability has led the industry through that period. And we'll talk about that in a minute. 
 
We're going to strengthen the brand, and the customer experience, and the focus experience and the focus that 
we had in the people, in the technologies, the airports. We actually used the period of time during COVID to 
accelerate progress with all those investments. A lot of traffic and the volumes were down. We got LaGuardia 
finished. We got Salt Lake City finished. We got LA finished ahead of schedule. We got the new Delta One 
Lounges open. We got a Wi-Fi that works that's now free aboard the planes. All of that stuff can – I'm not sure 
we'd still be there today had COVID not interrupted the journey. We knew we were going to get through and we 
had the alignment of strategy, so we put the pedal to the metal and we went and here we are today. And we said 
that we were going to restore our financial performance. 
 
Remember, in 2021, we're still losing a lot of money. And we told you that by the time we got to 2024 that we 
expected our earnings per share to be $7 a share or more. Well, we've missed it slightly. We're going to come in 
with CrowdStrike adjusted at about $6.50 this year, but pretty darn close to what we thought we'd do. And so, 
again, that's just another proof point on durability, predictability, and continuing to restore the strength of this 
business. 
 
The other thing that's interesting during this period of time is that we've generated between 40% to 50% of overall 
industry profits despite only having 20% of the market share in the industry. That same statistic in the three years 
prior to COVID from 2017 to 2019, we still were about 20% of the market share, but we had 30% of the 
profitability. So, we gained significant profit, profitable market share during this period of time, which also tells you 
that we moved faster than anyone else did. 
 
Our people are the reason our brand shines. This is a brand that transcends the industry. And when you think 
about the reliability and the service excellence that they provide, it's a cut above. We talk about our awards all the 
time. And while I'm sure some of our competitors in the industry are tired about hearing about our awards, but we 
never get tired of winning them. Including just earlier this week, Business Travel News naming us for the 14th 
year in a row the Number One airline for business travel. It's our most profitable, most important sector that we 
provide. And 14 years in a row that we've won that. That takes – that takes a lot of time. But it takes a lot of 
continued investment and sustained excellence as we continue to push ahead. 
 
Fortune magazine earlier this year named us the 11th Most Admired Company within their rankings. And that's, 
again, an airline as the number – I don't think airlines are typically in the top of the Fortune Most Admired List, and 
especially airlines coming through COVID. And of course, the Air Transport World named us the Global Airline of 
the Year in 2024. 
 
But all of that is not possible if it wasn't for our people and it wasn't for the experience we provide. When we talk 
about transcending the industry, what does that mean? That means that we don't think about us being solely a 
transportation provider. We're about the experience and it's the experience that people think about Delta. It's not 
the transportation, it's the experience. And we think about all that goes into creating a great experience. That's 
what keeps people flying us. And when you think about that, that's also the value that gets created.

Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL) 
Investor Day 
Corrected Transcript 
20-Nov-2024 
 
 
1-877-FACTSET   www.callstreet.com 
 6 
Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 
 
From a unit revenue premium, Glen will talk about the revenues and where we are on that score. We're sitting 
today at 114 index versus the industry. When we started this journey back 15 years ago, we were about 104. So, 
we've gained 10 points of overall revenue premium to the industry over the course of this journey, and we're 
continuing to climb as we move forward. 
 
If you ask why Delta's financial leadership in the industry, in the position we sit, is as strong as it is, it's because of 
this revenue premium. It's because the great work that our people doing. It's our Net Promoter Scores. That unit 
revenue premium trends is because customers prefer Delta more than ever before. And we use an independent 
consultancy, a large name that all of you know, to track and measure the Net Promoter Scores across the 
industry. Many of us subscribe to the same one. Delta's 26 points higher than our main network competitors, our 
Net Promoter Score. That's a direct reflection of the unit revenue premium and strength that we have. 
 
And you heard last night from Steve Squeri, the health of our co-brand card and the spend that we have is an 
approximated 1% of the entire US GDP going on at the Delta American Express card. Very, very powerful. And 
we continue to gain as we move forward. 
 
So, we're entering the new year and the plan year we're talking about are kind of a three to five-year look with a 
backdrop that's as healthy as anything I've seen in my 26 years in this industry. And some of you have been 
around a lot longer than that. And I daresay everyone could probably make the same perspective. And we're 
uniquely positioned to capitalize on the secular trends that we see that's continuing to invest in consumer and 
travel. 
 
Our consumer is in a good spot. Our consumer is healthy. And we've been asked the question many times over 
the last couple of years is when is the consumer going to be fatigued? Our consumers are not fatigued. Our 
consumer loves the experience of travel and wants more and we'll talk about that in a minute. The demand that 
we see across all of our sectors, whether it's for the premium product, which is leading all other products and 
service, whether it's for corporate that continues to climb in the mid-single digits year over year over year. And 
we're well beyond where we were in 2019 and we're continuing to grow and international travel is expanding. I 
think that's the one, if I would say, surprise, a behavioral change that I've seen is that continued health and growth 
of international travel. Glen will talk about that. That's something that I think that you're going to see that's going to 
be enduring. 
 
And this secular growth that we've seen in travel is across all generations. This is not only, those that are on the 
baby boomers that are wanting to go out, and had to sit home for a couple of years during COVID, and were 
afraid they'd never get back out, and the revenge travel aspect. It's actually happening with millennials more than 
ever, and Gen Z, we have all segments of our marketplace looking for that experience. 
 
And the accelerated pace of change that we see across our landscape, particularly in the domestic space, but the 
– on the low cost side is also helping produce healthier returns. And, as our overall industry's health improves, 
Delta being the top performer in that industry, will improve at least as much, if not more. So, this is why we have a 
pretty healthy outlook for the year ahead. 
 
That premium consumer is doing well. This is a chart that we showed a year ago and that tracked the amount of 
wealth that our consumers defined as household earning $100,000 or more annually created. Households with 
earnings of $100,000 annually or more make up about 40% of overall US households, and also 75% of overall 
travel spend. And, since Delta is a premium traveler, obviously, our numbers are much higher than 75%. I'd say, 
that number is probably closer to 90% of our travel is coming from households in this cohort.

Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL) 
Investor Day 
Corrected Transcript 
20-Nov-2024 
 
 
1-877-FACTSET   www.callstreet.com 
 7 
Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 
 
Just since we last were together, last summer in Atlanta, that cohort generated an incremental $10 trillion of 
wealth, just in the last 15 months. And so, when you ask us, does your consumer fatigue? Our consumer's not 
fatigued. Our consumer continues to have wealth that they can invest. And when we talk to them of what their 
highest priority is, it is travel. It's not – I was on Squawk Box this morning and we were asked target seeing a big 
drop in saying the consumer's fatigued. Well, the consumer isn't going to travel. The consumer is not here if the 
consumer is over in Europe. The consumer is moving. Consumers are investing in experiences rather than goods, 
and that trend continues to accelerate. 
 
And within the cohorts, the cohort that's moving the fastest are millennials. We've heard this from Steve Squeri 
last night. He talked a lot about the work that American Express is doing in terms of being very focused on the 
younger demographic and the younger generation and we're right alongside them, helping them, them helping us 
to make certain that we understand that. 
 
This is a chart that looks at where millennials are at their point in wealth creation compared to where Gen X was 
or some of us older boomers were at a comparable age. And this is inflation adjusted so these are real numbers. 
Today's millennials have 36% greater wealth than Gen X had back when they were in that same age range, or 
boomers had, 20% higher than boomers had. So, real wealth. This is not – this is all inflation adjusted. So, our 
millennials not only have the desire more than ever and capability, but they also have the execution and they are 
the fastest growing generation and air travel spend across all generations are growing by three points to four 
points across any other spend category. 
 
So, we're positioned to win. We have a lot of tailwind that we're going to continue to capitalize on. These are the 
three long-term strategies that we have internally within Delta. It's to elevate the world's best airline. Keep 
Climbing is not just our tagline. Keep Climbing is not just our tagline. Keep climbing is what we do every single 
day. We know there's improvements we continue to make in operational execution, and our technology 
transformation in our network and our fleet to continue to get better is to unlock the value of that brand with our 
consumers. And that experience and choice that we know that they have, increasingly, we want to make sure 
they're staying very loyal to the brand. 
 
And we're working and spending a lot of time on personalization to make sure that we understand our consumers 
as to where they're at, to continue to help them on their journey. And then, of course, for investors to deliver 
sustained value creation as margin expansion, that's the durability of our earnings and free cash flow and the 
ability to continue to reduce our leverage and increase returns. 
 
I'm going to spend a few minutes on the first one of those. And Glen and Dan will cover the other two pillars. 
 
Operational excellence is what we're known for. We took on the title about 10 years ago of the On-Time Machine 
and I promise you, we're never going to give it back. And this is a picture of what it looks like over that 10-year 
journey. 9 years out of the last 10 years, we've been the network leader in completion factor. And this is the 
cumulative period that you can see significant. And while the numbers may seem small, 98% versus 97%, just 
think over 10 years, the millions of additional cancellations the other guys have had that we haven't had. We're 
on-time which customers other than completion on-time is the second most important metric that we measure, a 
substantial and healthy improvement and growth over the competition over the last 10 years. 
 
That reliability is the foundation for our efficiency, the focus that we have in continuing to take good care of our 
customers, gives us, and allows us the freedom to be able to invest in premium with them. You can't be a 
premium provider in this industry if you're not providing the core foundation. This is why we've had the ability to

Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL) 
Investor Day 
Corrected Transcript 
20-Nov-2024 
 
 
1-877-FACTSET   www.callstreet.com 
 8 
Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 
 
build premium on top of this. Our people are happier for getting our customers where they need to go. And so, the 
premium offerings we've had have been easy to layer in on top. 
 
And there's a tremendous amount of capability to continue to improve that through technology. We made some 
pretty healthy investments over the course of COVID to move the majority of our technology infrastructure to the 
cloud with AWS. And we're just about at the end of that journey with that completed. It's going to drive a lot of 
agility, that's going to drive a lot of speed, a lot of efficiency for our ability to continue to not just provide stability to 
our infrastructure, but it's also going to allow us to continue to change, and move faster than others. Our platforms 
are modernized. Our software is continuing to get better, and it's also allowed for the integration of many of the 
new AI and data analytics tools that you hear a lot about. 
 
Personally, with AI, we all know there's a lot of hype around AI, and it's something that we all look at and wonder, 
just, is it going to live up to the promise. I think AI is going to be incredible in terms of its impact on our business, 
but it's only going to be incredible if we're prepared to actually use the power, to harness the power. And I would 
say at Delta, our focus on AI is to learn, and to listen, and to make certain that we're ready before we jump in with 
both feet. And these are the three areas where we're applying that. 
 
We think there's great opportunity in delivering a more reliable operation to our customers. When you think about 
Delta, and you think about the 5,000 flights a day that operate in all kinds of weather conditions, with all kinds of 
variables, with staffing coming from all over the world, it's a Rubik's Cube every single day, and you're trying to 
optimize and get the best answer. 
 
The power of that technology, again, when implemented properly with the proper foundation, is going to give us 
better answers for our crew. It's going to make reliable schedules for our crew members and easier to track. It's 
going to make better decisions, better informed decisions than one can sit at a screen and try to figure out how 
we're going to make these connections, and which flight should be the priority. Tremendous, tremendous promise 
in this area. That's one of the three platforms we're working on in terms of new technology, new digital and new AI 
capabilities. 
 
The connected experience digitally for our customers, you all see, as I know many of you are Delta customers, 
you see where we're going with Delta Sync, and free Wi-Fi onboard, and the login experience that you have. One 
of our analysts last night told me they sat down on the plane recently and it popped up on the screen, happy 
birthday, right? 
 
I mean, that's pretty cool. I mean, it's kind of a small thing, but it tells us that we're connecting with you and it's 
inviting you into the journey and getting more information and more insight as to how we can better serve you. 
We're in the early, early stages of this. The new technologies and the new AI platforms are going to help us along 
those lines. 
 
And, finally, it's going to allow us to figure out how we can drive the optimal revenue premium. Glen is going to 
talk about this but, when you have a brand that customers that are telling you, this is a plus 26-point advantage 
versus your network competitors, but your revenue premium is plus 14 points, is there opportunity to do better? I 
think there might be. 
 
And, we're looking at that, but it's going to take new technologies. It's not going to take us trying harder, it's going 
to be try and trying to think differently about how we price, and how we revenue manage it.

Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL) 
Investor Day 
Corrected Transcript 
20-Nov-2024 
 
 
1-877-FACTSET   www.callstreet.com 
 9 
Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 
 
Those are the three platforms that we are investing, and spending time, and staying very focused. And anyone 
that brings me an AI project within Delta, one that sits in of these three, well, we're just not doing it right now 
because this is where – this is where the opportunity sits. 
 
So what does this all mean? This is the framework we're thinking about for the next three years to five years on 
our journey. And I think that these are – these are the important metrics that you all care about. Margin 
expansion, today, we're sitting at somewhere between 11% and 12% operating margin. Our goal over this next 
three years to five years is to steadily grow that sustainably into the mid-teens. 
 
The durability of our earnings and free cash flow, we expect our EPS growth to grow at a double-digit level on 
average over the next five years. It doesn't mean every single year it's going to be at 10%, maybe some years it'll 
be higher, maybe some years it'll be lower. That's the airline industry. But we're going to continue over time to 
track towards that 10% annual EPS growth. 
 
And for those tracking, we're starting with this year in 2024 adjusted already for CrowdStrike. So, our numbers will 
be pretty much $6.50, which is the range we're sitting in adjusted for CrowdStrike on the current year guidance. 
And at the same time generate between $3 billion to $5 billion per year of free cash flow. 
 
And we look to get our balance sheet down to 1 times gross leverage. Today, we're sitting a little over 2.6 times, 
2.7 times in that range. We think over the next two years to three years we can get to that 1 point – excuse me 1 
times gross leverage. And at that point we absolutely are a fortress balance sheet because it's not only that gross 
leverage, which is meaningfully better than anything this industry has seen, certainly at our scale, but it's also 
supported by over $40 billion of unencumbered assets and a 15% return on invested capital. So, this is the 
framework as to how we're thinking about for the next three years to five years. 
 
And of course, we're going to continue to stay very balanced in our capital allocations and returns. We're 
expecting on average to generate about $10 billion of operating cash per year over the next five years. Just think 
about that, $50 billion. Today, we're somewhere between $8 billion and $9 billion of our operating cash. And so, 
it's – we're already starting to get into that zip code. And when you think about putting 50% of that back into 
product, back into higher quality service, back into modernization of our fleet, back into our lounge system, back 
into our technology platforms and still have opportunity to put 50% or another $25 billion to continue to reduce our 
gross debt. Our gross debt today is $26 billion. And if we wanted to, we could bring our gross debt to zero with 
this model over the next five years. I'm not suggesting that. I know, I'm a hawk ensuring to get that debt pay 
down, but we're going to make some pretty good headway. But getting to this model will leave availability for 
excess cash at the end of our – once we start getting closer to this range, we decide to go down in that direction. 
 
So that's the overview of where we're sitting for the year. We feel very good about how we're closing the year out. 
I feel very good about the fact that we're delivering a profit target this year, even with CrowdStrike, even with 
some of the geopolitical challenges we've had, even with some of the weather issues, even with the amount of 
instability there was in the domestic supply earlier this year, with a profit number that's pretty much on par with 
where we had last year. And as we think about 2025 and we think about the year ahead, we think about hitting 
our 100th anniversary. We're very determined here and we think we're very sound in our thinking that 2025 is 
going to be the best year in Delta's history. So, I thank you for joining us today. 
 
And at this point, I'd like to introduce and bring up our President, who now has to go deliver against all this stuff, 
Glen Hauenstein. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL) 
Investor Day 
Corrected Transcript 
20-Nov-2024 
 
 
1-877-FACTSET   www.callstreet.com 
 10 
Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 
 
Glen William Hauenstein 
President, Delta Air Lines, Inc. 
Well, good morning, everybody, and thanks so much for being here with us this morning. We really appreciate it, 
we appreciate your support of Delta over the years. We've been on a long journey here and it's so nice to be able 
to stand up in front of you, as we close out this year and head into next year and talk about how excited we are 
about our 100th year. Our 100th year is going to be, I think our best year ever, as Ed said. And the setup is really 
great. 
 
I think when you look at what we're seeing in terms of industry capacity, in terms of competitive environment, I 
think we're putting it into words. We've seen a real separation, we've seen the separation of the carriers that are 
serving premium products, premium quality, higher quality products, separate their margins and separate from 
carriers that are solely concerned with price. And I think, we saw this many years ago and we went on a journey, 
we went on a journey to decommoditize the airline space. And Ed was a huge supporter of that back 10 or 15 
year – well 15-plus years ago now. And I think, there were no proof points. There were no proof points to say that 
this was going to work. So – but we knew inherently that people wanted higher quality products. 
 
And to take that risk on and to make all the investments and all of the infrastructure that we have done. And I'll hit 
that in the presentation here, it's really been a great gratification, I think for the entire commercial team and the 
entire airline to see that we have separated ourselves out as we head out of 2024 and into 2025. So, a little bit 
about the 2024. We're closing out right where we thought we would. Very good holidays ahead of us, we've got 
our number one revenue day in our 100-year history is going to be a week from Sunday. The Sunday after 
Thanksgiving. A little interesting side note there is that coming back from COVID, the return trips for Thanksgiving 
get spread out and now they're back to where they were pre-COVID with a very high concentration of people 
needing to be back in the office on Monday. So I think we're seeing the manifestation of back into the office as it 
relates to airline travel. 
 
And really well-positioned as we sit here, as we look into January and beyond. I think that's what's got us really 
excited here is that we knew during this year that the industry had a little bit of too much capacity. And this was 
really, I believe, a function of after COVID, we couldn't get our planes in the sky fast enough and nobody saw 
where this was going to end. So, everybody kept going and going and going. And if you remember those 
cartoons, where the character goes over the cliff and it realizes all of a sudden that there's nothing below it and 
then falls down really fast. I think that's what the industry kind of did here, as we headed out of COVID and back 
into a more normalized environment. We couldn't get the planes in the sky fast enough and now we're in the 
position where there is an equilibrium and a balance between capacity and demand. 
 
The manifestation of that cliff was earlier in the year when we had industry seats of domestically eight and the 
industry just didn't track that demand which had, of course a very negative impact on unit revenues. But more 
interestingly I think a very different impact on the carriers that were supplying premium products and services 
which had a little bit of a downdraft versus those who were just focused on price that had an incredible cliff to fall 
off of. And I think, again we've seen that manifests itself in the bankruptcy we saw filed this week 
 
So, as we head out of this year, we're looking at a very, very encouraging first quarter. First quarter is always our 
most challenging quarter. Advanced bookings are really, really solid. Yields are strong and – both domestically 
and internationally. We're seeing probably our best unit revenues on the Transatlantic, for example, in the dead of 
winter. So, really great setup as we think about where we're heading into the spring and summer for peak season. 
 
I want to talk a little bit about our brand, because at its core – at our core, everything revolves around this brand. 
And it's been that reinvestment into the brand and into our people and into the facilities and into the infrastructure

Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL) 
Investor Day 
Corrected Transcript 
20-Nov-2024 
 
 
1-877-FACTSET   www.callstreet.com 
 11 
Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 
 
and into the experience that I really think has paid dividends. And not only in financial, but if you think about our 
ability to recruit top talent, if you think across the entire spectrum of our ability to position ourselves well enough 
for today, but for tomorrow and for five years from now. 
 
So, continually investing back in the customer experience, I think you saw our friends in at Amex talk a lot about 
that last night is. Two things, one is when you think you're done, you know, you're not. And I think keeping us 
humble, keeping us thinking that we don't know the answer, and we're going to continue to make investments, 
we're going to continue to experiment with the customer experience, growing our loyalty and revenue. That's been 
a meteoric rise. And we're continuing our $10 billion – I'll get to that in a few minutes. And then engaging 
customers beyond the flight. This brand is very powerful. And it's very powerful in the travel space and travel 
adjacent spaces. And how do we continue to expand the reach of our brand and to partners not only in the airline 
business, but sitting in the adjacent travel space and even beyond that. So, a little bit more about how we're going 
to do that over the next few years coming up, let's see. 
 
I want to talk a lot investing in elevated experience. I think Ed touched on this a little bit is, if you wanted to be 
Delta, where would you start? And this is really where I think when I get up in the morning, I think, if I was sitting 
in a company that wanted to be Delta, what would you have to do? And whether you think about on time and 
reliability or the best culture in the business or whether you think about the app or whether you think about the 
generational airports that we have invested. These are really I think, the long-term moats that we have. And when 
you think about where would you start, I think it's a daunting challenge. 
 
I would just take one and that would be operational, because I think operationally you could say to yourself. Hey, 
look, I want to do whatever it costs to being the number one in terms of operations. But there's going to be a 
tremendous cost at the upfront on that and the payoff doesn't come for years and years and years. And that's just 
one of the moats that we have that says year after year after year, Delta is best-in-class, in terms of operational 
performance. How are you going to beat that perception in the mind? It will take an inordinate amount of money 
and it would take an inordinate amount of time and that's just one of the small moats. 
 
So the generational airport investments, I'm going to talk a little bit about. During COVID, as Ed said, we added 
$13.5 billion of generational airport. And two things there. One is, we financed them at very low rates and two is 
those are now behind us, while some of our competitors are facing enormous and inflated at higher interest rate 
investments that are going to come into their portfolio. So, this is in our run rate P&L in 2025 and beyond. And 
what I like to say about airports is the most expensive day is the day they open. 
 
And over time, the value of money goes down and over time the employments go up. So, we've made those 
investments in our P&L and those are going to be the ability to continue to grow over the next 20 years. We have 
made that payment in advance and that's now embedded in our P&L. Most comprehensive lounge network. We 
continue, we have opened two Delta One Lounges. By show of hands, anybody been to One? Well, good. Well, if 
you haven't, I highly recommend you buy a Delta One seat and check it out, they are in JFK and LA, soon coming 
to Boston. That will open the first two weeks of December and then early next year into Seattle. 
 
And over the next – between now and 2030, we'll have them in all of our interior hubs as well, but all the major 
coastal gateways already have or will have them in the next six to nine months. And very excited about the initial 
results of that. Of course, these are big investments we make and we make them based on long-term value. And 
what we've seen already is a huge uptick, not only in terms of the average ticket value, but in terms of the share 
we are taking in New York to Europe in the high-end marketplace of Delta One.

Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL) 
Investor Day 
Corrected Transcript 
20-Nov-2024 
 
 
1-877-FACTSET   www.callstreet.com 
 12 
Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 
 
Seamless and personalized experiences at scale. I'm going to get to that in more detail in a few minutes, but this 
is really where the whole industry is going and I think we're continuing to lead here. When you think about our 
ability to retail, we have to be better and better at retailing. You go back, and I have a slide later about the history 
of this, but how did you buy tickets 20, 25 years ago? You went to a travel agent. They looked at a green screen, 
90% of the tickets were sold on the first line, first screen and the industry's job was to try and get themselves 
positioned in first line, first screen. That has totally changed, right? The way we sell our products and services 
over the last 25 years has flipped more than anything because now we're able to describe an experience and 
being able to not only create it, And being able to not only create it, but describe it to customers and sell it and 
retail it is really the frontier that I think we've been really leading and will continue to lead over the next three to 
five years. 
 
Growing the value of membership engagement, of course, our Amex relationship, one of the most important, I 
think. Well, certainly the most important to us, but one of the most important in all of the credit card business and 
one that's continuing to grow at a very accelerated rate. Premium products and customer choice. If you think 
about a widebody flight to Europe and I'm sure most of you have been on a widebody flight to Europe. When you 
think just 10 years ago where we were, we had two products. We had a Delta One product which the commitment 
was flat-bed seat and direct aisle access and we had coach and that was it. 
 
So it was either a very high-end product or a very basic product. And the way we've been able to segment that 
and if you think about a widebody today. You have Delta One, you have Delta Premium Select, you have Delta 
Comfort+. You have Delta main cabin and you have Delta basic economy. And the ability to retail that diversity 
and try and suit the product with the actual customer needs is a journey that I think this industry and Delta leads, 
but continues to evolve. Again this journey has been a long time in the making. And if you go back to 2010 and 
before, you think about our challenge and I think this is unsung hero in our evolution is that the biggest loss leader 
on the airplane in 2010 and before were the premium products. Because we didn't sell them, we gave them away. 
And we gave them away based on – based on a frequent flyer system that was based on miles, not dollar spend. 
And so the incentive was to spend at least as possible, fly as long as possible and get as upgraded as often as 
possible. 
 
That led to a position where the, our most valued products where the biggest loss leaders. And you really, you 
think about that when we sat up here 10 years or 15 years ago, when we said, we're going to change that over 
time, believe us, we will. And here we are 15 years later, where the premium products on our airplanes are the 
highest margins by far and they go in descending order, which is exactly where you want. 
 
So you have, Delta One, Delta Premium Select for domestic first, Delta Comfort+, Delta Main Cabin and Delta 
Basic. That gives you an incredible amount of flexibility to continue to invest. Because I always tell the team, we 
have, I think the best commercial team in the business. But I always say, if you're a good business person and 
you have something that's losing money, do you want to produce more of it or less of it over time? And of course, 
the answer is less. So when we had our first class product, what did we want to do? Because it was such a big 
loss leader, we wanted to risk less of it. And I think you saw the whole industry, whether it was – what Delta did 
with Song [ph] or we'll (00:42:40) get rid of the premium products because they're not making any money, instead 
of reengineering the whole thing. And this has been a reengineering process that has been 15 years in the 
making. 
 
So a little quiz question for you is our domestic paid first class – our domestic first class load factor is 92%, 15 
years ago it was 92%. So the question is, 15 years ago, what percent actually paid? Anybody got any ideas? [ph] 
15%, 11% (00:43:07). Okay, you win It was 12%. But if you even dissected that, 6 points of that were domestic 
portion of international journey for those of you who know what that is and I know you do Jamie is that that was

Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL) 
Investor Day 
Corrected Transcript 
20-Nov-2024 
 
 
1-877-FACTSET   www.callstreet.com 
 13 
Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 
 
people who were buying business class on the international flight who also qualified to have a domestic first class 
flight. So really, we only sold about 6 points of that 92% paid load factor. 
 
Today, we're sitting right around 75%, still 92% paid load factor with 12 points going to upgrades. But what we 
found is that the customers wanted to buy those products. We had just made them unavailable as an industry. We 
were charging 13 times more than the average coach seat at the time of booking. So we brought that separation 
way down, we've made them much more affordable. And guess what, when you make something affordable, 
people want to buy it. And they saw value in it. So, we have an incredible intent to repurchase 85% of people who 
are sitting in premium products want to stay there. And I think this is really interesting, when you think about the 
psyche of the consumer. And I equate this to when I was a kid. How many of you had a luxury car as your first 
car? Okay, I see no hands. Oh, wait. Silver spoon. Silver spoon, dad bought me a Porsche. But most of us did 
not, most of us started with, I'd say, clunkers. I'll admit my first car was a 1966 Rambler. Many of you don't even 
know what a Rambler is, that's how old I am. 
 
But – you do. But I keep buying better cars. I remember the first nice car I got and how it made me feel and how it 
made me – and then I think I've kept buying nice cars. I don't go back – I don't see a clunker in my future. And I 
feel that this is really the psyche that people have. And what we've garnered from all this now years of experience 
with these premium products is once people are flying in them, they tend to not go back. So – and there's a life 
cycle, the life cycle starts when you're young and fares were the only thing that matters. And then as you get older 
and you can afford more and want more and it's really been enlightening to unlock this life cycle of a customer 
and understand them. And what I think is so exciting, a better future, as Ed pointed out, is the millennials and how 
strong the Delta brand has been over the last 10 years to attract the best millennials. 
 
And so, as we think about our future moving forward, as these continue to mature out and I'm a boomer and over 
the next 15 or 20 years, our boomer sales will be declining at a very rapid rate, unfortunately. But what's exciting 
is what's coming up. And what's coming up is even richer than what's leaving, not only richer, in terms of the 
demographics that Ed pointed out, but in terms of our share of that wallet today. So a really exciting future as we 
look forward here. 
 
This is all about premium continuing on our journey. Growing premium seat mix, one of the things we said and I 
think a lot of you had ask this, when we started this journey many years back is will – are you going to create 
more of this inventory? Are you going to create more seats on the airplane? And our line back at that time was – 
our first line of defense is to get a really good basis of what pricing and inventory management can do. And then 
when we're done playing with those dials, we'll continue to look at whether or not we need to increase the seating 
capacity on existing airplanes. 
 
And so, I think now with five or seven years of this, we have enough data to suggest that, yes we do have 
airplanes that need more premium seating. And so, we've started reconfigurations, for example, of the A350-900s 
to a much higher premium mix. We are also starting our domestic increasing Comfort+ and access to Comfort+. 
So we'll be increasing that significantly on existing fleets and doing that all without changing the total number of 
seats on an airplane. So well, in the case of the widebody we are, we will be decreasing it; but on the case of the 
mainline narrowbodies, we won't be decreasing it. 
 
And I think, this is going to unlock the next tier of value. One of the things, I think if you shop on Delta often and 
hopefully most of you do, you'll see that Comfort+ is sold out more often than not. And so we're going to work on 
changing that as we move forward here by increasing the number of seats there. And continuing to align the value 
to the price, I'm going to talk about that a little bit more on my next slide. But if you think about the way pricing, 
airline pricing is, a traditional airline pricing has been done, I call it punitive and punitive in, when do you charge

Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL) 
Investor Day 
Corrected Transcript 
20-Nov-2024 
 
 
1-877-FACTSET   www.callstreet.com 
 14 
Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 
 
more for a seat, we charge more for a seat, when we're running out of inventory or when we've identified that you 
are a time-sensitive customer by certain fencing requirements that we put in into the ticket rolls. 
 
So when you think about that, you think, well the best customers are generally later in the booking curve and 
they're generally getting the leftover inventory and is that really value? And so, as we think about are we going to 
be able, in this new retailing environment to create a better value proposition for our customers where, if you're 
paying more, you feel like you're getting more. And that's a concept that I think is not unique to the airlines, it's just 
general great business, but the airlines have kind of been the outlier here, as you think about it, is that our pricing 
structures have been more punitive than value-based and we're going to continue to take the journey to make it 
more value-based as we move forward. 
 
And then, optimize through technology, Ed talked about AI. We are really excited about AI. I have another slide 
that I'm going to get to in a minute here, talking about where we are on that journey. But it's the beginning of a 
journey and it's going to take many years for us to realize the full value of it. But I think where we're sitting today 
is, we're at the very beginning stages and we're a leader in this. Customers with choice. If you think about the 
choices that they had back in 2010, coach first or business class, now we've got all these different cabins on the 
airplane. But we really think that there's another way to segment them. And I'm going to just call it out and I'm 
going to say, first of all, we're experimenting with this. I'm not announcing anything today. But if you said within 
each one of these categories, there are people who have different needs and you said kind of a good product, a 
better product and a best product. Could we invent subcategories of each one of these products that had more 
value? So, you take Comfort+. And I think this is going to be an iterative process for us. We're going to test and 
learn along the way, but we're going to start from the bottom up. 
 
So in 2025, we're going to try some segmenting, some additional segmenting the main cabin. We really already 
have it with basic and main, but do we have kind of a best in that category, which we don't really have. So, if we 
put a best in that category and then we thought, well, Comfort+, there's no good, better, best there. Could we start 
introducing that? And I think over the next couple of years you'll see us attempting and really testing with what 
consumers want in their bundles and what they're willing to pay for. So, taking each one of these physical and 
then putting on additional attributes to say, I know if I pay more, I get more. And that's really the way I think good 
retailers work and the way airlines have not and the way that we're going to transform ourselves over the next 
three to five years. 
 
Right offer, right time and right channel. And there's been a lot of talk about this I think in the industry, where all 
kinds of new contribution capability is coming online. But what we're really trying to do is to get inside the mind of 
our consumer and present them relevant, something that's relevant to them at the right time with the right price. 
And I'm going to start on the right side with optimized offers. This is something I'm really, really excited about. 
Generative AI, we've partnered with a company called Fetcherr out of Israel. And we've now been working with 
them for, I'd say the better part of a year. And we've got them – we've got about 1% of our network currently being 
priced by the Fetcherr team. And this is again a full reengineering of how we price and how we will be pricing in 
the future. And if you think about it today, there are two disciplines. There is pricing, which sets the price points 
and then there's revenue management, which controls access into the inventory of those price points. 
 
And over time, we think this is going to get melded together, that it's going to be really just offer management. 
That we will have a price that's available on that flight, on that time to you, the individual. Not a machine that's 
doing an accept reject and a static price grid. We've started this and I'd say what we have today with AI is we 
have a super analyst. We have an analyst that's working 24/7a day, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. And trying to 
simulate, given the same inputs that an analyst sees today, real-time what should the price points be. And that 
output is different than what we have in market. And so, we're letting the machine tell us actually go ahead and

Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL) 
Investor Day 
Corrected Transcript 
20-Nov-2024 
 
 
1-877-FACTSET   www.callstreet.com 
 15 
Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 
 
price in a very controlled environment, it's going to be a multiyear, multi-step process as we continue to learn, 
innovate, teach the machine, change the business process, but the initial results show amazingly favorable unit 
revenues versus the beta. 
 
And so, we're all in on this. We're very excited about it, but we want to be really smart about it because it could 
also be very dangerous, if it's not controlled and it's not done correctly. And we do think there's a first-mover 
advantage. And we do believe that we are ahead of our competitors in terms of implementing this and in changing 
our business processes and rules around it. Better user experience, simplifying the purchasing process. And I 
think, I shop on different carriers all the time just to see how carriers are shopping. And I think ours is – and I don't 
know if any of you do in this room, but I think our process is really clean versus some of the other ones where I 
feel like I'm going to a Turkish bazaar on the way out the door. When you stand in line at the retailer and there's 
the gum and this and that, it's cluttered. There's a lot of stuff and what we want to really do is we want to create 
trust between the consumer and the brand. And trust means, I understand what I'm buying and I get consistency 
in that. 
 
And so, we continue to improve our customer experience so that they can see what they're buying. We give them 
clean choices and we don't give them too many choices. We give them the right number of choices. And then 
improve distribution. I think this was really underestimated when we started our journey of trying to sell premium 
products. The industry was not ready to sell them. The way they were being distributed, and we've made a lot of 
progress over the last years in terms of continuing to work with our suppliers, our OBTs, our GESs, our OTAs to 
improve the way people see Delta's products and services and make them more like consumer retailing. And a 
long journey, one of our competitors went out, really pushed new distribution. We are very enthusiastic about new 
distribution, but we want it to be something that people want, not people are forced to do. So exciting journey we 
have ahead of us there as well. 
 
Personalized and seamless experiences, we put a lot of effort into this, and we have a long way to go. This is 
really, one of our partners has this great tagline, which I'm going to steal, its hospitality in your hand. And when 
you think about it, that's what we're really trying to do. We're trying to let you do anything that we could do. And 
this has been really an interesting journey for us, because we've had to – this is 100 year old company. We have 
100 years of rules. And so, to go through with our teams and look at all the rules, all the ticketing rules, all the 
rules that we self-imposed on ourselves and say, which ones do we really need? And what we found even 
internally is that they weren't even standard. We might have had a different rule that ACS had, or airport customer 
service had and then RES had. 
 
So I think one of the great lines, it was the minimum age of a pet, and one was 12 weeks, and one was 10 weeks. 
And so identifying all those because streamlining that makes it a lot easier to program and getting to the right 
answer. One click, one click to do what I want to do. One version of the truth. There's not six different answers 
from who you call or – and really getting that standardized, so that we can put as much easy to use information 
and options in our customer's hand that our RES agents have. And if we make it easier for our customers, it's 
going to be even easier for a RES agent. 
 
So this is a journey we're on, where I think, we're middle of the tier here. We got a long ways to go. But every 
year, you're going to see us getting better and better and better at that. And more and more, you'll have hospitality 
in your hand, where you're controlling your entire trip from start to finish from your head – from your app. And of 
course, transitioning to the cloud accelerates our ability to do that. And we're very excited, because one of the 
things that Ed didn't mention is that during the cloud migration, there was a lot of focus on that. Now that we're at 
the end stages of that, we can redirect to really implementing some of these changes that we have in the queue 
that have been kind of sitting, waiting for the cloud to be fully migrated.

Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL) 
Investor Day 
Corrected Transcript 
20-Nov-2024 
 
 
1-877-FACTSET   www.callstreet.com 
 16 
Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 
 
 
Growing brand loyalty, again, Dwight and his team, I think have done an amazing job. This year, we will acquire 
over 1 million new cards again. I think that's five years in a row. And growing our card spend at 20% to 30% 
above the industry continually, and as even as the card portfolio gets bigger and bigger and bigger. So why is this 
so important? This is really – our loyalty program is a manifestation of our brand. People who are involved in our 
loyalty program spend 5 times more on Delta. Our new members are younger and more engaged. And I think this 
is really interesting because this is one of the side benefits of free Wi-Fi is getting all of those young people to 
sign up. And now, we know who you are. We can market to you. We can take you along the life cycle journey with 
us. And so, really exciting opportunities there. 
 
Growing our premium preferences and increasing the ecosystem. Of course, partnering with people like 
Starbucks, and continuing, I think Ed talked about CES. We have some exciting new partnerships, so stay tuned 
for new partnerships that will be launched as we head into CES. 
 
And this is our tag to $7 billion – from $7 billion to $10 billion. And I think when we were in 2010 and we were $2 
billion and we put these big markers out there. It was impossible for us to think about how. And you think about it, 
I think in some ways, the limbo bar has gone up a little bit because getting from $7 billion to $10 billion seems a 
lot easier for getting from $2 billion to $7 billion. And the things that we put in place, the way we market to our 
customer, the way we bring them into our ecosystem, the way we get them to download the app, the way we get 
them into the Delta system, and then allow, as you continue to mature, say, I see why I'm getting so much value 
from Delta. I probably need to get that card. And that card, if you don't have it, is an amazing way to continue to 
accelerate your journey on Delta. 
 
So we talked yesterday a lot in our meeting with Amex about these cards and are there even more aspirational 
cards? And I think that was a great takeaway to say, okay, we've got the Reserve card out there, but is there even 
a better card? So we'll put our thinking caps on that. Never stay satisfied. And that's I think one of the hallmarks of 
Delta and keep climbing. 
 
And lastly, engaging our customers beyond the flight. This is something I'm very excited about. With very little 
effort, we've increased our sales on travel-adjacent spaces by over 70% year-over-year. And as we continue to 
get better at this retailing, as we continue to get better about understanding what our customers want and 
continue to provide SkyMiles as our way to distribute value, I think we're going to find more and more 
opportunities to expand this and grow it at a disproportionate rate, at a very low capital, incremental capital. So 
again, stay tuned on this, but this is something I think we've made great progress on. Contribution now is still 
pretty nascent, 100-and-some-odd million dollars a year, but it's growing at a very rapid clip. And I think this is 
going to be a really important journey of ours as we continue to move forward. 
 
Delivering high margin revenue growth, I talked about this in its components, but then kind of putting it all 
together, where do we think we are on this journey? And I think this is something we didn't do. We didn't really 
think about selling premium products 15 or 20 years ago. And this continued change in the psyche of selling an 
experience and what does it take to sell that experience and what do customers really want? And so what are we 
bring to market? Things like Delta One, things like continuing to invest in Delta Premium Select. I think this is 
really something that we are still just scratching the surfaces on. And as these millennials continue to age and the 
population becomes bigger and bigger and the wealth drives higher and higher, being well positioned in this is 
going to be incredibly powerful for us. 
 
Today, when we started 40% were in premium or diversified, I'll call it, diversified and premium. Today, we're 
sitting 57%, 43%. And in the long-term, I think this is going to be 60% plus versus 40%. And why is this

Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL) 
Investor Day 
Corrected Transcript 
20-Nov-2024 
 
 
1-877-FACTSET   www.callstreet.com 
 17 
Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 
 
important? It is important for us to supply main cabin. Because main cabin is the entry point. If you think about 
that life cycle, people don't start in the front, they start in the back. And having best-in-class services in the main 
cabin, having price points that are accessible in the main cabin, because that's where you draw people in. 
 
And then as you look at who they are and as you see who has the greatest opportunity here to become high 
lifetime value customers, using that information along the way to encourage them with the right products, the right 
offers at the right time to get them to do what you want them to do. To get them to download the app, to get them 
to join SkyMiles, to get them to buy the credit cards. And then use that as your leverage to continue to enhance 
their journey by bringing on more and more partners and more and more ways to use those miles in the future. 
 
So I think we've made a lot of progress and a lot of people would say, oh, well, they're probably less ahead of you 
than is behind you. And I think the opposite. I think there's more ahead of us than what's behind us. So as I sit 
here on the eve of our 100th anniversary and look at the ability of us to take, make our 100th year ever our best 
year, our best year ever, which I think we will do. We will make our 100th year our best year ever. And excited 
about what's sitting beyond that. What's sitting in 5 years and 10 years? Because I think this brand is so well 
positioned. And it's so well positioned to continue to evolve and to continue to drive change and to continue to 
aspire to be better in the minds of our consumers. 
 
And so that's a long journey. And so, I'd like to thank you all. Thank you for your time today. And I'd like to call up 
Dan. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Unverified Participant 
 
Please welcome Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Dan Janki. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Daniel C. Janki 
Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Delta Air Lines, Inc. 
Well, Glen, thank you very much. Welcome, everyone. It's a great morning to be with you here today. Really, 
you've heard the themes durable and differentiated – differentiated and durable. I want to put that the financial 
lens on that related to Delta's financial performance. Our financial framework as we go forward, and the three 
pillars go through them as it relates to value creation. And it is, as Glen said, it's an exciting time as we close out 
this year on a positive note. A lot of strength and you look into next year, we get to turn the calendar. We get to 
turn 100. And when you look out there, you see the differentiation, it's never been greater across Delta, whether 
it's on the commercial front, the operating front or the financial performance front. 
 
And that's really a tribute to Ed, Glen, and the leader in this room that have been here for this past decade plus 
that had that commitment to that consistent strategy, that delivered that strong execution and that significant 
investment that went with it. It took rigor, took fortitude through times, but that's really what's built that capability 
and really has created that foundation for a structurally improved business and operating model and a financial 
model that goes with it. That has set the foundation for the outperformance as it relates to profitability, to cash and 
to returns over this period of time. 
 
It was – for me, I've just been here just over three years and it was – we were turning – I was just in the first six 
months, when we were down there in New York City and down at the Stock Exchange and laying out three years. 
At that point in time, I was learning the industry. We were just crossing that point of being 60% rebuilt. And when 
you look over the last three years, what we've been able to accomplish really proud, the Delta team generated

Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL) 
Investor Day 
Corrected Transcript 
20-Nov-2024 
 
 
1-877-FACTSET   www.callstreet.com 
 18 
Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 
 
over $20 billion of operating cash. We've invested over $15 billion into the company, generated almost $6 billion 
of free cash flow. We built the unencumbered assets that $30 billion over that time. 
 
We had the opportunity to initiate a dividend, to grow that dividend, and ultimately, achieve investment grade. And 
I think that speaks to the financial foundation we're on. We lead as it relates to return on invested capital. We're 5 
points ahead of our weighted cost of capital, and we're in the upper half of the S&P 500 and we want to continue 
to grow that over time. Well, that differentiated performance, it's built on this foundation. This foundation of margin 
performance. And Delta has always had a focus on this and a heritage around leadership position as it relates to 
margins. We've extended that leadership position to the industry, 6 points here. And that is really built on those 
enduring competitive advantages. 
 
It's a strong, trusted brand. It's a great level of service. The operational performance and capability. Its ability then 
to grow that loyalty and that premium, take advantage of that hub structure and network structure that we have. 
And that's really the point, where we think we have and believe we have the opportunity to differentiate as we 
continue to show that durability that is have created the foundation of a better financial model that we will over 
time be able to unlock additional value for our owners. 
 
We do that through our three pillars. The first one, run the company for margins. Steady focus on margin 
improvement. This is the balance of driving that revenue premium with a competitive cost structure and focusing 
on the things that Delta controls to Delta specific opportunities to create that steady margin performance. That is 
pillar number one. Then you have pillar number two, where discipline as it relates to growth and capacity, GDP, 
GDP plus type growth, coupled that with margin expansion. That creates the foundation for 10% on average 
annual growth, and you're able to be disciplined about reinvestment, creates a foundation of $3 billion to $5 billion 
of free cash flow. 
 
That then plays into the third pillar in the foundation of the one, which is fortify it's strength in the balance sheet 
from where we are today, go towards 1 times leverage. Take that gross debt down into from $26 billion today 
down into the low-teens. We've got a debt section has about $2 billion of maturities as we go forward. And it 
allows us to build those unencumbered assets over time. Those create the foundation. You execute against that 
where you can continue to return, increase that return on invested capital from where we are today, 13% to grow 
into 15% plus over that period of time. 
 
So now I want to spend a little bit of time on each of the three of these. So first, where are we – where we're going 
as it relates to margin improvement, 11% going to mid-teens, a point of reference in 2017, 2018, 2019, we 
averaged about 14% over that period of time. I think Glen really talked about the key elements as it relates to the 
revenue premium and all the drivers that we have that are unique to Delta as it relates to driving that unit revenue 
premium over time and that revenue growth and diversifying that revenue. 
 
I'll spend some more time on the next couple pages around competitive cost structure. How do we get more out of 
our existing investments, our existing assets? How do we generate efficiency? So that we can drive Delta specific 
improvement as it relates to margins. And then we also have the opportunity over this period of time to improve as 
the industry construct improves. And I think that would be most acute as it relates to opportunity around main 
cabin margins over time. 
 
So costs, cost execution, focus on cost is foundational to margin and margin improvement. We've made good 
progress this year. We set out at the beginning of the year, where we said we want to be in low-single digits. 
We're executing against that. We want to build off of that as we go through this framework. We anticipate that our

Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL) 
Investor Day 
Corrected Transcript 
20-Nov-2024 
 
 
1-877-FACTSET   www.callstreet.com 
 19 
Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 
 
unit cost will be growing to low-single digits, while we continue to reinvest back into our workforce and into 
customer experience, while at the same time, growing at a lower rate than we did in 2024. 
 
Three primary areas, where we can get that scale, efficiency and focus. The first, leverage our existing 
investments and assets. I'll go around the horn here. Fleet continue to grow utilization. We got 2 points of 
utilization from our existing fleet this year. We expect half our growth next year to come from increased utilization, 
mostly from getting the full flying of our regional fleet back by mid-summer and continuing to unlock mainline units 
as we've had units that either from elevated maintenance units or parked units over time, and we'll get continued 
benefit in 2026 related to that. 
 
Network, where are we putting that growth? Over two-thirds of that growth is going into our low cost, most 
competitive core hub structures. These are low cost, high margin, not only in 2025, but also in 2026 and beyond, 
we have opportunities to continue to grow those at those rates. The third is the workforce. We've talked about this 
as we've gone through the year and execute against our plans this year on our earnings calls and other updates. 
We continue to grow the network. This year, we grew the network at 6% and our workforce grew less than 2%. 
That spread that you see there you can anticipate seeing that as we go through 2025 and again in 2026 as we 
continue to grow in to our resource base, we continue to build proficiency, and we continue to unlock efficiencies. 
 
Glen talked about the airports, the generational rebuild that we have behind us, we're ahead of our competitors. 
That will be fully in our run rate as we go through 2025, and as Glen talked about, the most expensive days are 
the early days and not only over this framework period of three years to five years. But for decades to come, we 
have the opportunity to continue to grow capacity and capability and lower the effective cost on a per employment 
basis. 
 
So that's around leveraging investments. The other category is normalizing maintenance expense. We've talked a 
lot this year about maintenance expense being up $350 million. Our teams have done a nice job executing 
against that. The operational reliability for maintenance has greatly improved. The investment we put in, we have 
maintenance cancels down over 75%, continue to build off that. And we're also been through and we talked about 
this, this period of high airframe checks contributed a significant amount of volume. Those start to normalize. You 
start to see the step down in 2025. We'll see it again in 2026 and as we go to 2027. 
 
I think the other opportunity other than normalizing volume are twofold. First, just around proficiency, not only of 
the Delta team, but of the supply chain team. And a little bit like the workforce metric, the one we look at here is 
around turnaround times. And you look at turnaround times on engines, components and airframes. They're more 
stable this year than they were in previous years. They were going up and getting longer. They've been more 
stable. But we really have an opportunity as we look through the 2025 business plan and operating plan and look 
out in 2026, 2027. The progress that our teams can make along with our supplier in bringing those down. Those 
turnaround times in a lot of cases are up 50% and sometimes up 100% from their historical levels. And you'll 
continue to see a reversion to the mean. 
 
And then the third part that we've talked about related to maintenance that we have in front of us is a consistent 
retirement of aircraft. This year is first year we're retiring aircraft of just over 20. So 757s, 767s, 320s. Our tech 
ops teams great about taking that material, not only ensuring that we then can be more reliable with the existing 
fleet feeding it back in, but also lowering our cost over time associated with that. So those are the benefits that 
you're going to continue to see as we go through this framework as it relates to maintenance normalization. 
 
And then the last one is technology. And this one, Ed talked about, Glen talked about a piece as it relates to 
commercial. We've put significant investment in. We've been at this for 5 to 10 years in modernizing our

Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL) 
Investor Day 
Corrected Transcript 
20-Nov-2024 
 
 
1-877-FACTSET   www.callstreet.com 
 20 
Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 
 
infrastructure and capability of moving it to the cloud. And you're already starting yet to see the benefits this year 
as our teams work on an enterprise basis, our ability to deliver capability to market for our customers, our 
employees in an accelerated manner and more robust capability. And we're getting more out of our spend 
associated with this. And we're built. The industry is built for it, and especially, Delta is built for it, as it relates to 
the ability to drive greater efficiency across our operations as we go forward. 
 
So those are the key pillars that allow us to continue to manage effectively to a competitive cost structure, while 
we continue to invest in our workforce and the customer experience and create the foundation for margin 
expansion. One part that I want to build off of that is around the disciplined approach to the fleet. You've heard 
components of it. Glen talked about 85% of our seats are premium seats as we grow going forward here. I 
mentioned fleet utilization both on the regionals and unlocking mainline. We're also continuing to get benefit from 
simplification and scale of our fleet. 
 
We've been on this journey of going from 13 families to 7. We're at 10 today, but you're starting to see the scale 
benefit as it relates especially to our widebodies, the 330s to 350s and our three families of narrowbodies, where 
we get better commercial deployment in network related to them, but better operational performance behind it in 
efficiencies. 
 
And then the last. As we continue to invest in the fleet around fuel efficiency, taking delivery as you go out through 
this framework, about 40 to 50 aircraft a year. We're consistently retiring anywhere between 20 and 30 based on 
our needs. And as you mix that, these new aircraft 25% more fuel efficient. And it drives 1 points to 2 points of 
fuel efficiency overall. So those are the Delta, specific opportunities in front of us as it create foundation for margin 
expansion and consistent and steady over time. 
 
So, durability. Durability, durability, durability of earnings. Durability of cash flow. This is one that we believe that 
the last 10 years, 15 years of that consistent strategy has created the attributes and the foundation for it. It's 
something the industry hasn't been known for through the cycles and the volatility. And we believe that this is our 
opportunity to really differentiate as we go forward. And maybe just put a few finer points on it. A lot of times you 
can talk about growing revenue premium or SkyMiles members in a given year or three-year period. But one, 
when I just reflect on it and you think – and you've seen some of the stats there. But we – where were we in 2014 
versus where are we today? 
 
And just maybe a few of them, hub structures, hubs. Number one position, we're at four. Today, we're at eight and 
the ninth is a strong number two. Think about joint venture – global joint venture partners. In 2014, we were just 
initiating our second joint venture partner with Virgin, building off of the Air France, KLM, one. Today, we're at five. 
We're continuing to deepen the relationship and have a lot of growth in front of us as it relates to that. Think about 
SkyMiles members over that period of time almost doubled. SkyMiles members that are carrying a credit card 
more than doubled. The contribution from that partnership. Steve and Ed talk about last night went from one point 
– under $2 billion to going over $7 billion on its way to $10 billion. 
 
Premium revenue, $10 billion or less in that period of time, going to over $20 billion and continue to grow. Those 
are the attributes of the structurally improved business model, provide stronger financial durability and where we 
think we have the opportunity to really differentiate with that and unlock value for our shareholders. 
 
An important part of that, I was managing a strong balance sheet. So with that cash, continuing this progression 
of paying down gross debt, driving our leverage down to 1 times, building more than $40 billion of unencumbered 
assets and well-positioned to do this over this time period. And really, probably the time period about three years, 
I'd say, the midpoint of where we're at. And that should really significantly put us in a position. We've never had

Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL) 
Investor Day 
Corrected Transcript 
20-Nov-2024 
 
 
1-877-FACTSET   www.callstreet.com 
 21 
Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 
 
$40 billion of unencumbered assets with that low of gross debt. You're talking about annual maturities that are 
well under $2 billion. And think about changing the financial risk probably $40 billion of unencumbered assets. If 
you're in a cycle, you can raise $30 billion of secured financing behind that. Firepower that gives you to manage a 
cycle, but also through a cycle to extend those competitive advantages, continue to position the company for the 
next decade to come. 
 
Ed hit this, an important part of this is capital allocation. We've been bounced around it. You see us consistently in 
reinvesting back into the company in high margin, high return. The short- to near-term here, we're going to be 
focused on continuing to reduce debt and driving towards that 1 times, a commitment to build off the dividend with 
a steady dividend increase over time. And as this plan lands out, it really allows for excess cash and ability of 
flexibility as we go forward. 
 
And Delta's got a long history here, value creation. But we think this important part of delivering capital back to 
investors as you reduce that debt, you're changing the financial risk profile. Your investors benefiting from a 
greater percent of the enterprise value. You're lowering the equity volatility. You're lowering the beta and the 
financial risk of the company continuing to strengthen it as you go forward. 
 
So with those elements of the pillars of value creation sets the foundation. As we go forward here on return on 
capital, do these, you do these well consistently allows you to grow your return on invested capital from 13%, we 
want to be 15%. Continuing to grow that spread to our weighted cost of capital and continue to do is to grow in the 
leadership position of the upper half of the S&P 500. 
 
So I will close out, where Ed started. I couldn't be more optimistic about how we're positioned going forward. 
Really a position of strength, a position to win, and it's really around that consistent strategy, those enduring 
competitive advantages. They're delivered every day by a tremendous Delta team that does it so well. Operational 
reliability with the level of service that creates the foundation. That durability point that sets the phase for us to be 
uniquely differentiated as it relates to financial durability. Earnings, cash flow, incredibly strong balance sheet, 
flexibility around capital allocation, we believe that unlocks real value for our owners but also brings value to our 
customers and our employees. 
 
So with that, I'd like to thank you. Going back to Julie. A quick break and then, we're going to come back for Q&A. 
So thank you very much. 
 
[Break] (01:22:38-01:54:24) 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Unverified Participant 
 
Please welcome back to the stage, Ed, Glen and Dan for Q&A.

Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL) 
Investor Day 
Corrected Transcript 
20-Nov-2024 
 
 
1-877-FACTSET   www.callstreet.com 
 22 
Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 
 
 
QUESTION AND ANSWER SECTION  
 
Edward Herman Bastian 
Chief Executive Officer & Director, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
Okay, Julie. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Julie Stewart 
Vice President‐Investor Relations & Corporate Development, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
All right. First question [indiscernible] (01:54:46) 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Duane Pfennigwerth 
Analyst, Evercore ISI Q 
Okay. Thanks. Thanks. It's Duane Pfennigwerth from Evercore ISI. Thanks for hosting the event today. Maybe 
start with Glen. Just with respect to 2025 plans, obviously, there's a lot of optimism around a better domestic 
backdrop for some good reasons. But I wonder, which you think will be the biggest driver next year? Is it more 
about kind of domestic optimism or international? And maybe you could weigh in on that both from a margin and a 
unit revenue growth perspective? 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Glen William Hauenstein 
President, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
Sure. I'm excited about both. I'm excited about Transatlantic, which is going to have, we believe, one of its best if 
it's not, best winter IATA season ever. Revenues are really accelerating into January and February. Of course, 
most – the most dead time in the year for the transatlantic. And so, as we head into spring and summer with the 
capacity that's been announced out there, with the demand that we see, materializing the off-peak season, I think 
we're very encouraged about, where we'll be for summer IATA in the Transatlantic. Trans-Pacific, again, we're 
having some of our best margin years and continuing to grow that franchise. That's a little less seasonal than 
transatlantic. 
 
And so we're encouraged by that. And really encouraged by our performance this year in the South Pacific, which 
of course, is contra-seasonal. There are new service to Brisbane, continuing service to Sydney, Auckland and 
Papeete, all doing quite well for the season. And then, South America where we've been making big investments 
over the last couple of years since we've announced the LATAM joint venture and really starting to put that – dial 
that more into a harvest mode than to an invest mode as we look to what our expectations are for 2025 and 
beyond. So really strong international, I think we see across the board. 
 
And then, domestic. I think we're continuing our journey on the premium products. And I think the upside would be 
is, if the bottom end can fix itself. And we'll see how that plays out in the year. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Duane Pfennigwerth 
Analyst, Evercore ISI Q 
Thanks. And maybe just for a follow up. With respect to the strength of the brand and the adjacent travel 
categories, is there a specific category, whether it's hotels or whether it's cruise? Is there a specific category 
where you see the biggest opportunity to bring other brands along? 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL) 
Investor Day 
Corrected Transcript 
20-Nov-2024 
 
 
1-877-FACTSET   www.callstreet.com 
 23 
Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 
 
Glen William Hauenstein 
President, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
Yeah. I think we're in nascent times in that category. And I think, we're exploring. Quite honestly, the largest 
contributor right now is [ph] cars (01:57:28). Could there be stays over time? Could there be cruises over time? 
We really aren't even in the cruise business. We're just starting to get into that. And the continued growth of Delta 
Vacations and how we grow that internally, because that's one of the things that I didn't mention in the 
presentation, but a place where a lot of our customers are seeing huge value, where they can get mileage for 
their entire vacation as they plan through the Delta Vacation site and continuing to grow and make that more 
relevant over time. So I think we've got a lot of opportunities. It's a matter of focus. It's a matter of saying, where 
do we really see consumers wanting us to go with this. And we're going to follow their lead there. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Jamie N. Baker 
Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC  Q 
Hey. Good morning, Glen. Jamie Baker with JPMorgan. You talked a little bit about the potential to subdivide 
existing cabins. I was kind of hoping for more, but you emphasized that you're experimenting with things. Would 
you at least be able to identify the cabin that has the most potential for these efforts? 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Glen William Hauenstein 
President, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
Well, I just think just by sheer volume and size, it would be domestic first/DPS. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Jamie N. Baker 
Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC  Q 
Okay. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Glen William Hauenstein 
President, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
So that's where a huge revenue base is and segmentation of that revenue base would potentially drive a 
significant improvement to the bottom line. So, I think, yeah, we're experimenting and we're going to see what 
customers like, what they don't like, and we'll be bringing that to life and we're going to work from the – what I am 
committing to is, we're not starting from the top down, we're starting from the bottom up. So the first – we're 
halfway there in terms of the coach product, the main cabin product, we'll continue to enhance that in 2025 and 
look to introduce our first good, better, best trials in Comfort+ by the end of the year. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Jamie N. Baker 
Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC  Q 
Okay. And second, one of your largest domestic competitors believes that they inadvertently misplaced $1.5 
billion of revenue. Would you characterize their efforts to recapture that as ongoing in earnest yet to begin 
completed? Doubtful. And what is Delta doing to – hang on to the share that at least one other entity believes 
belongs to them? Thanks. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Glen William Hauenstein 
President, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
I think you'd have to ask them how they feel about their progress. I would say, what's exciting for us is that our 
share of corporate contracted revenue has never been higher. And so we're continuing to see strong demand,

Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL) 
Investor Day 
Corrected Transcript 
20-Nov-2024 
 
 
1-877-FACTSET   www.callstreet.com 
 24 
Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 
 
and really, post-election we saw another uptick which we expected in terms of the total corporate. It hasn't flown 
yet, but the bookings that are coming in. So we see a really robust setup for corporate in 2025. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Edward Herman Bastian 
Chief Executive Officer & Director, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
And Jamie, to be a little more specific, we didn't see like this big blip and then settle down. We've seen steady 
progressive in the high-single digits kind of continued way through the last couple of years. So for us, we know, 
we've picked up share, but it's not something that we're or we're saying make sure we want to hold onto 
everything, obviously, that we're doing. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Conor Cunningham 
Analyst, Melius Research LLC  Q 
Hi, everyone. Conor Cunningham, Melius research. Thank you for the day as well. You've done a great job of 
least relative performance of driving down seasonality in your business. But in the spirit of the whole theme today 
about durability, consistency, all that stuff, is there an opportunity still to help fix first quarter and fourth quarter 
relative to what you're doing in this – in the summer peaks? Is it more cost-driven, network-driven? We talked a lot 
about demographics changing. My guess is that there's an extension of, we're talking about the best winter 
timeframe in the transatlantic. But just any thoughts around what you could do to seasonality? 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Edward Herman Bastian 
Chief Executive Officer & Director, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
I'll just start real quickly and then I'll turn it to Glen because I think a lot of it is, what you said is the network. I 
think, we're going to have our best fourth quarter in history this quarter. So we've already got the fourth quarter 
checked, right? But that's, in fact, our fourth quarter, we will – we should earn on par with what we earned in the 
third quarter plus or minus, which never happened. So you already starting to see that seasonality, start to level 
out. You got other things like fuel and things that are also come into play. But the first quarter is, where we always 
spend the most amount of time and energy. And I remember pre-COVID, our goal was to get the first quarter 
better and then it was every month in the quarter. And we eventually got there and we're going to kind of take that 
same laser focus to the first quarter. Glen? 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Glen William Hauenstein 
President, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
I think, these are all long journeys. Everybody thinks you can snap your fingers and change who you are. But one 
of the real key drivers for this is going to be our ability to use our fleets more efficiently. And when we had a 
disparate fleet at the top end, so we had some 747s, we had some 777s, but we didn't have enough of anything. It 
was really hard to rotate them from summer to fall and get any kind of utilization. So we had huge differences in 
utilization on those small fleets, where we couldn't have enough of them in the summer and we couldn't have too 
few of them in the winter, and that created a huge disparity. 
 
So now that we've got these fleets to scale, we're able to really flex them because we have basing in multiple 
places for the same airplanes. So we're able to get more out of them and fly the winter in a better position. And I 
think, that's been one of our drives with South Pacific. It's one of our drives to South America. Ultimately, it will 
also be India in the Middle East, which peak in the first quarter. So we're focused on that because we want to 
drive the utilization not super high in the summer and non-existent in the winter. We need to balance that out 
better and we know that to drive more efficient cost structure over the medium and the long-term. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL) 
Investor Day 
Corrected Transcript 
20-Nov-2024 
 
 
1-877-FACTSET   www.callstreet.com 
 25 
Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 
 
Conor Cunningham 
Analyst, Melius Research LLC  Q 
Great. And then, if we could – I think everyone in this room agrees that the high end consumer will hold up better 
during downturns. You have a lot of compelling slides with that data out there in terms of wealth creation and 
whatnot. But when you think, I mean, the premiumization and the consumer focus has still early stages, where 
we're even, you're only, I think, 30% mix on your fleet right now. Can you just talk about how you think about 
when a downturn does happen, how they change your overall profile of dips, in terms – again, back to the 
durability theme in general? Thank you. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Edward Herman Bastian 
Chief Executive Officer & Director, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
I think one of the most exciting things is, the many different ways you can get up there. And as I look at people's 
propensity to want to stay flying in these cabins and not want to downgrade themselves, these are also our 
highest balance customers in terms of SkyMiles. So I can buy the ticket in a downturn and then use my miles to 
upgrade. So we've made them so flexible that I think and we can change the value proposition. So if we want 
more usage of those premium products in a downturn and we see that there's ability to do that, we can get drive 
higher value through offers, and that's the right price to the right person at the right time throughout all parts of the 
cycle, I'm not just the up part. And I think that's where we're very excited. That's what we're trying to build. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Edward Herman Bastian 
Chief Executive Officer & Director, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
It's really interesting, Conor that the greatest growth we had in premium was during the time of the biggest 
economic collapse, which is COVID, because people valued the experience, they valued wellness, they moved 
upscale. And we leaned into it when we blocked those middle seats. And we continue to prioritize the care for 
customers. They remember that to this day. And I think one of the reasons why the premium strategy we've had is 
at the level we have is because how we treated them during COVID, the brand elevated. And that's going to be 
really hard to slow down. Yeah. We'll bump along. There will be a slowdown eventually. We know that. But we 
also know that the demand and the interest to be upfront and to be sitting in the seats with the various ways in 
which they can get there or pay for it, are like never before. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Scott H. Group 
Analyst, Wolfe Research LLC  Q 
Thanks. It's Scott Group from Wolfe. So maybe, Dan, a couple for you. The mid-teens margins target, how much 
of that is based on domestic main cabin getting better, which I guess, is more of a view of the industry? And then 
how much is growth in premium and loyalty that I guess, is a little less dependent on the industry overall? 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Daniel C. Janki 
Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
Yeah. As we talk about steady increase in margins, our focus is – as I went through are the things that we can 
control. Glen went through the opportunities as it relates to revenue premium. We can control the cost elements 
of that. And we believe we can steadily increase margins on Delta specific items. And we do know that as I 
mentioned on the slide that main cabin is the least restored from historical level. So there's an opportunity there. If 
the industry were to get better, we would benefit from that. But that's not as we think about it. We're counting on 
things that we can control. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL) 
Investor Day 
Corrected Transcript 
20-Nov-2024 
 
 
1-877-FACTSET   www.callstreet.com 
 26 
Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 
 
Scott H. Group 
Analyst, Wolfe Research LLC  Q 
Okay. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Edward Herman Bastian 
Chief Executive Officer & Director, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
But at the same time, it's clear that if the industry does implement the self-help they've all announced that they're 
implementing, it's going to rise and we'll all... 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Daniel C. Janki 
Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
Yeah. We'll benefit. Yeah. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Edward Herman Bastian 
Chief Executive Officer & Director, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
Yeah. Then we'll all benefit from that. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Scott H. Group 
Analyst, Wolfe Research LLC  Q 
Maybe just to that point, as we think about the supply/demand backdrop for next year, right, you've talked about 
10% on average, right? Is there a reason to think next year should be any better or worse than that? And then can 
you just say how much of the long-term cash flow guidance, what you're assuming for cash taxes, just because 
that could change with the administration? 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Daniel C. Janki 
Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
Yeah. Let me start off. I'll take the cash taxes first. Over – in our operating cash flow of that $9 billion to $11 
billion, it assumes that we start to step into being a cash taxpayer. We expect we'd be in the low-single digits next 
year. And as we move to 2027, we'd be a full cash taxpayer. That's based on legislation today. Okay. If that were 
to change, we would see a benefit from that. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
 
 
Q 
[indiscernible] (02:07:26) 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Daniel C. Janki 
Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
On capacity? 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
 
 Q 
[indiscernible] (02:07:32) you talked about. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL) 
Investor Day 
Corrected Transcript 
20-Nov-2024 
 
 
1-877-FACTSET   www.callstreet.com 
 27 
Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 
 
Daniel C. Janki 
Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Delta  Air Lines, Inc. A 
Not trying to give next year's guidance, right? This is a framework through – 10% is through the next three to five 
years as we see it over time. There's going to be some years that are better. There could be some years that are 
below that. The setup from where we sit today feels pretty good. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Edward Herman Bastian 
Chief Executive Officer & Director, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
Yeah. Listen, arguably we think about the long-term. There's no question the near ends is a lot better than what 
we can predict in 2029. So you can draw your own inference from that. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Sheila Kahyaoglu 
Analyst, Jefferies LLC Q 
Right here. Sorry. Sheila Kahyaoglu at Jeffries. Glen, I'll start with you, if that's okay. You talked about 60% 
premium and loyalty revenues all over the long-term of 57% today. Maybe if you could give us a little bit more, like 
Jamie, I wanted a little bit more on the segmentation. And as you start younger – in terms of younger generations, 
how do you think about that 60% growing in terms of what percentage it could ultimately come up to? 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Glen William Hauenstein 
President, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
So I think the slide is 60-plus percent. And I think since we're sitting at 57%, that doesn't seem too aspirational 
given the track that we're on today. We should pass 60% in the next year or two here. And I think the answer is, 
why at 60-plus percent is we're working on what that is. We're working on how you get that to be even more 
weighted towards the premium products without losing focus on the fact that you need to bring people into the 
ecosystem early and they don't start there. 
 
So we have to balance that as if we could say, oh, we want to be just a premium carrier. But then you have the 
issue of where do people get into your ecosystem. And so I think our ability to have price points that are the 
masses with a highest quality product is really important for us to keep our focus on while we're continuing to 
grow. 
 
And clearly, as we get to $10 billion on the card spend, as we get – we have all the building blocks to go beyond 
the 60%. And the question is, how much do you want to be reliant on that versus how much do you want to have 
for essentially the entry point places? And what we've proven in this part of the cycle, which I think is really 
important to keep your – to keep our focus on is that the industry, the bottom half of the industry is struggling and 
we're thriving. And not to lose focus that that's an important part of the segment and we can't abandon it. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Sheila Kahyaoglu 
Analyst, Jefferies LLC Q 
Dan, one for you, if that's okay, in terms of your 1 times leverage target, $26 billion of gross debt today going 
down to mid-teens would suggest about $12 billion of debt pay down, which is 30% higher than I think most 
people have in their model. So why for debt prior – debt pay down prioritization when we've seen two other 
airlines come out with share repurchases? 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Daniel C. Janki 
Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A

Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL) 
Investor Day 
Corrected Transcript 
20-Nov-2024 
 
 
1-877-FACTSET   www.callstreet.com 
 28 
Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 
 
It goes back to the themes on durability and differentiated. We think that this is one that we want to lower the 
financial and enterprise risk associated with debt. The best way to do that is take down the absolute debt. It takes 
it down actually to the low teens, under $2 billion of maturity in any given year. And you've got a lot of firepower as 
it relates to unencumbered assets that you can weather any storm in this. Industry has shown that it will throw you 
a gut punch when you don't expect it. And you always want to be prepared for that. You never want to be in a 
position, where you have to issue equity in one of those cycles. It's the most value destruction that you can do. 
And we really believe that this framework takes that off the table for our investors, lowers the risk, and will unlock 
value over time. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Edward Herman Bastian 
Chief Executive Officer & Director, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
Yeah. There's a question, Sheila, for all of us is, how do we rerate, right? And there's various ways to get there. 
We believe taking that risk down is going to be the surest path to having investors put more confidence in their 
ability to predict the future outcomes for Delta. And it is a differentiator because there's no other airline out there 
talking about this. There's no other airline possible that can do this other than Delta. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Ravi Shanker 
Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC  Q 
Thank you. Ravi Shanker, Morgan Stanley. Maybe starting with you, Glen. If a – first of all, thank you for all the 
data today. But do you have data on why – if a customer is on a website like trying to buy a flight, and they end up 
not buying a Delta flight, what's the primary driver of that? Is it primarily price or do customers still have 
perceptions of like other brands are better and kind of how do you convert that over time? 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Glen William Hauenstein 
President, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
I think we would call that shopping, right? Is that customers – and I think the way shopping has evolved is really 
an interesting side note to this is that it used to be that customers didn't need to shop because they thought they 
could go to one of the OTAs and they would get the matrix answers that showed them everybody. And – but that 
was commoditized, right? And so this de-commoditization has made them realize that they have to go shop and 
look more at what their competitors and you can say a lot about Americans, but one of the things we are really 
amazing at is shopping. 
 
And so seeing value and turning that into – converting that into a sale is really important for us and we monitor 
that every day. We monitor conversion rates and track them and then target – retargeting and try and understand 
why they didn't, but most of it is because they're shopping. They're not ready to commit yet, and when they're 
ready to commit then, of course, price, if they don't find the right price, but there's a lot that goes into that 
decision. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Ravi Shanker 
Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC  Q 
Understood. Thanks for that. And maybe follow up to Dan, is mid-teens a stable kind of settling point for margins? 
Like would that even be a high watermark or do you think kind of beyond this three year horizon, you can push to 
even higher than that? 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Daniel C. Janki 
Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A

Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL) 
Investor Day 
Corrected Transcript 
20-Nov-2024 
 
 
1-877-FACTSET   www.callstreet.com 
 29 
Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 
 
When you look back at – and reflect on where we grew them to over the last decade, being on average 14% over 
that period of time, I think, aspiring to be north of that in mid-teens is given how much the business continues to 
improve and has structurally improved over the last five years continues to be a good point. 
 
And those will – we're giving you through a cycle view. So just like on earnings, you could be some years slightly 
ahead of it, some years slightly below it, you will have some variation around it. But we think that is a really good 
destination based on our business strategy and the financial model underneath it. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Brandon R. Oglenski 
Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc.  Q 
Yeah. Good morning. Ed and team, thank you for hosting us here. Brandon Oglenski from Barclays. So maybe 
sticking along the margins discussion here, Dan, because I think if we go back three years, you actually did hit 
most of your earnings targets, which I think at the time investors didn't give you a lot of credit for. But now you 
guys are talking about how do you [ph] re-rate (02:14:20) over time. Obviously, the market today with a very low 
valuation says, it's probably not durable, it's not sustainable earnings levels for you and your competitors. So, 
when you want to look out three years from now, what are you going to be more flexible in that plan to deal with 
maybe higher inflation, which I think was the cause of missing margin targets last time? How do we ensure that 
three years from now you're going to be hitting that mid-teens margin level? 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Daniel C. Janki 
Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
Yeah. I think if you reflect back a lot, we didn't know at that period of time. I think as you think what has transpired 
through those three years, the biggest element of it was the amount of labor reset of going to market and what a 
step function change that was not only for Delta but for the industry. And that was not only about the direct labor, 
but it was about the entire supply chain. I think that's what the industry is struggling to get to. I think the benefit for 
Delta was we were able to offset a lot of that with demand and with unit pricing. But I would say if you go back, I 
think that and the pace of restoration, really the two biggest ones. So for us, that's – I think that kind of gives us 
the confidence in regards to where we're going to go. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Edward Herman Bastian 
Chief Executive Officer & Director, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
And overall utilization, Dan talked about it in his presentation. It's not just the fleet and the assets which we know 
we have significant opportunity to improve still, it's labor. We are still well above our labor levels from that period, 
back in 2018, 2019 timeframe as we still have – we have a young team and we're going to continue to be able to 
drive enhanced utilization, making better use of labor now that we're on the other side in a place of more stability 
and more durability. But I think, there's opportunities all over [ph] in the fuel (02:16:11) prices, right, fuel prices. As 
it enters into the equation, what's going to happen to fuel prices? I think you're going to – it's going to be 
interesting, there's probably as much opportunity for that still further upside as downside there. So I think, we've 
got boxed in some of the key variables. But I think we're going to look for a period of better stability overall than 
what we've been through. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Brandon R. Oglenski 
Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc.  Q 
Appreciate that. And maybe a quick follow-up for Glen, because you did talk about AI pricing model. And I think 
you said you're pricing 1% of the network today. Can you just maybe expand on that because it seems very 
innovative relative to where maybe where the industry has been? 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL) 
Investor Day 
Corrected Transcript 
20-Nov-2024 
 
 
1-877-FACTSET   www.callstreet.com 
 30 
Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 
 
Glen William Hauenstein 
President, Delta Air Lines, Inc. A 
We're in test phase to roll out in a much more significant way throughout the year here. And it's going to involve a 
reengineering of how we work. It's going to involve a reengineering of how our systems talk to each other. And 
like anything, the AI is only as good as the data that it's receiving. So we're really working to make sure that that's 
as clean as it can be and it's giving us the right results. 
 
We are very, very encouraged and I said this in the speech. But I want to explain. Right now, it's taking the role of 
a super analyst, it's making decisions and recommendations based on working 24/7 to try and figure out what 
price points you can hold. And I think, it's maybe even more important for Delta than other carriers because of the 
strength of our brand. We don't really know where our brand strength in any individual market is maximized. So 
generally, we match our competitors' fares and they may or may not be available. But if we take small increments 
and say to Tokyo, could we take a $20 increase in our fares and not see a decline in market share? Could we 
take a $40? It's doing that real-time now. 
 
And so, our ability to continue to roll that out in a very measured way because it could also backfire on you and 
could be very dangerous, garbage in, garbage out, kind of thing. And so, being very deliberate about the rollout, 
being very deliberate about the inputs and the processes and being very deliberate on monitoring the actual 
results versus the beta, the test. And we've been really, really encouraged. And so, we're continuing to try and 
accelerate that, but not do it in a way where we put too much revenue at risk at any individual time. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
David Vernon 
Analyst, Bernstein Institutional Services LLC  Q 
Hi. David Vernon for Bernstein. I want to come back to the topic of the buyback just real quickly, Dan. As you 
think about $12 billion of debt pay down relatively low cost debt, already a large unencumbered asset base that's 
about 30% of your market cap today. As you think about getting to where you want to go, if you start instituting a 
buyback in a couple of years, that's going to be more expensive, it's going to be a little bit less beneficial for 
shareholders. So how are you guys thinking about responding to market moves during this period of time? Are 
you set on getting to the one times leverage or is there room for you to be maybe more opportunistic depending 
on how things work out? 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Edward Herman Bastian 
Chief Executive Officer & Director, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
I don't want to put Dan in the catbird seat tonight. Listen, we always are sensitive to our owners. And we will look 
at it. But our overwhelming priority is to pay down debt. And we'll keep you posted as to we always watch what 
the stock price is. We watch what the other opportunities for that capital is. But in the near-term, we really want to 
get our leverage down. We just came through a pretty traumatic period. Delta by the way, as many of you know, 
was the only airline that did not dilute its shareholders. And so, a lot of the buybacks [ph] you're seeing analysis 
(02:19:43) buying back stock that they sold previously [ph] or raised (02:19:50) previously. So, we feel pretty 
confident this is the right strategy for the next couple of years. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
David Vernon 
Analyst, Bernstein Institutional Services LLC Q 
All right. Thank you. And then maybe just as a quick follow-up, you know as you're ... 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL) 
Investor Day 
Corrected Transcript 
20-Nov-2024 
 
 
1-877-FACTSET   www.callstreet.com 
 31 
Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 
 
Edward Herman Bastian 
Chief Executive Officer & Director, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
... I'm looking at my chairman here and I'm saying that. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
David Vernon 
Analyst, Bernstein Institutional Services LLC  Q 
As you think about the opportunities that are going to be presented to you, right? The large part of domestic 
capacity is not earning re-investable margin. They're going to have to push fares up. You're going to have 
opportunities at a higher margin to be making decisions about do you grow, do you take margin. How do you think 
about navigating that balance just given the unique position that you're going to be, in terms of dictating growth or 
price relative to your competitors, who are kind of more focused into the latter half of that strategic choice? 
Thanks. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Glen William Hauenstein 
President, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
Well, I didn't. It was on my dot points that I was supposed to hit. So, this is a great opportunity for you to say, what 
I missed in my presentation is, we intend to grow three to four next year. And that's probably in line with what we 
think demand set is and we assume that our unit revenues are going to grow in excess of that mid-single digits. 
We're about durable. We're not about trying to catch a piece of a cycle. We're about long-term investments. And 
when I say long-term investments, it's not only the airports but the individual markets that we choose. We don't 
want to be in and out. We're about reliability, we're about dependability, we're about people counting on us. 
 
And I think, one of the things that we don't talk about is not only when you think about the U/LCC model the 
density of our models, in terms of the number of times you can come back or get out and back, it's really, that's 
where scale helps you. And so, we want to be very deliberate about how we grow. We want to be very deliberate 
about ensuring that what we put in market is durable, that it's durable not only in the upcycle but in the down 
cycle. And so, we'll be very, very judicious about how we put capacity in. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Savanthi Syth 
Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.  Q 
Hey. Savi Syth from Raymond James. Your execution on costs actually has been somewhat surprisingly good, 
given that a lot of the kind of volatility is still there, especially on the kind of supply chain, MRO side of things. And 
with your -just I am wondering, if you can talk about the engines and GTF [ph] as you're not (02:22:08) staying on 
wing and how you see that impacting you. And then the part that we didn't talk about today was that MRO 
opportunity, which is another great – high margin growth opportunity that's still ahead of you. Just when do we get 
to that, given what you're seeing today in this environment? 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Daniel C. Janki 
Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
I think on cost – I'll start with cost and the execution and it's just really a tribute to Ed in regards to how he pushed 
us as a team was to always prioritize putting the resources in, to deliver the operation over managing cost as we 
were rebuilding the airline. And as we got to that stage, I think now we settled into that normalization period that 
we started talking about at the end of last year. And we've been able to execute against that and you're starting to 
see that benefit. And I think you'll continue to see that as we go forward. As it relates to the Turbofan and Pratt, I 
think part of it starts with just the relationship that we have and how significant we are with them and how we get 
prioritized in that relationship. It still has impacted us when we look at aircraft and we have parked – temporarily 
parked because of engine issues, predominately Pratt, but they're not the only one.

Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL) 
Investor Day 
Corrected Transcript 
20-Nov-2024 
 
 
1-877-FACTSET   www.callstreet.com 
 32 
Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 
 
 
It's about [ph] 15 (02:23:16) we've been averaging on average. And – but I also think it's a testament to the deep 
capability that we have within the Delta TechOps team. And the ability of that team to work closely with those 
partners hand in glove, whether it's on airframes, whether it's on components, whether it's on engines. And 
actually in many cases supplement some of their engineering capability or operational capability that allows us to 
manage more effectively through it and also get greater transparency to it. And Glen and the team have been 
pushing us to see 12 months and 18 months out so that we understand these items. And if you have time, you 
can better manage them. 
 
So maybe then shifting to MRO, as we've rebuilt the airline, we've prioritized Delta and Delta's customers and 
Delta's operation. That has been at the cost of growing our third-party capability. But now, we're in a place where 
we're more balanced around that. And I think, as you see us go into 2025 and beyond, you'll start to see that 
growth start to happen. And I think, we feel as you look out at the long-term of third-party services, how we're 
positioned on the next generation and also have deep capability with legacy capability, we're uniquely positioned 
and our long-term aspirations haven't changed around that. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Savanthi Syth 
Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.  Q 
Thank you for that. And then if I can ask, Glen, you talked about seasonality kind of coming back, with people kind 
of having to go back into the office. I was curious, if you have any, now that we've seen a little bit more 
normalization from a corporate standpoint. Are we going to see a couple of years of higher than normal growth? Is 
this normal growth? And is there any changes in the buying patterns of that corporate customer? 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Glen William Hauenstein 
President, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
Corporate has been buying a little bit further out than they had historically. So, we'll see. I think that's been 
coming back particularly. But we'll see really what happens post-election. We're only a few days into this and 
we've seen some very dramatic uptick, not dramatic, but very significant uptick in corporate sales in the post-
election environment. This is not unique. It happened back in the last election. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Edward Herman Bastian 
Chief Executive Officer & Director, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
In 2016. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Glen William Hauenstein 
President, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
In 2016. So not unexpected on our part. But I think very welcome. And then we look at our surveys and we see 
that 85% or more think that they will be spending more in 2025 than they did in 2024. Those are near historic 
highs. So I think 2025 is shaping up, it's going to be a very, very solid year for corporate demand. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Andrew G. Didora 
Analyst, BofA Securities, Inc.  Q 
Hi. Good morning. Andrew Didora at Bank of America. Ed you and the team have done a great job speaking 
about how you've gotten to your competitive advantages today, largely built by the 15-plus years of investment 
that you've made. When you think about the next three to five year plan and the 50% of operating cash flow 
reinvesting in growth. How much of that should we think about being fleet growth? And then, more importantly,

Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL) 
Investor Day 
Corrected Transcript 
20-Nov-2024 
 
 
1-877-FACTSET   www.callstreet.com 
 33 
Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 
 
given the success you've had on the non-aircraft CapEx side, can that be a bigger portion of your investment 
spend going forward? 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Edward Herman Bastian 
Chief Executive Officer & Director, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
Yeah. Well, thank you, Andrew. Majority will be fleet. There's no question that we have a pretty significant 
upgrade that we're in the process of on the international fleet. International I think is going to be the continued 
area of growth, outsized relative to domestic. And that's where we're going to be leaning into, not just growth, but 
actually the quality of the existing fleet that we have there internationally. Most of our airports are largely done. 
There's always something that we're doing [ph] but if we're (02:26:58) going to continue to add lounges. But the 
big airport investments are behind us. A very big technology investment which was going to the cloud is behind 
us, that probably was a $500 million investment we made over the last three years, three to four years, that's 
behind us. 
 
We have some dry powder to think about whether it's the investments in MRO, investments – we made an 
investment in Wheels Up a year ago to see [ph] but they're (02:27:25) going to be a little discrete. I wouldn't look 
on the international board and say there's a big lurking decision to be made. We're pretty much happy with where 
we sit internationally. So to the extent we have more powder to continue to pay down debt and eventually return 
to shareholders, we're open to that. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Andrew G. Didora 
Analyst, BofA Securities, Inc.  Q 
Great. And then just I'll follow-up to that, when I think about on the 2025 capacity growth of 3% to 4%, shall I 
assume that's a pretty good baseline over the next three to five year plan? When we think about that 3% to 4% 
growth, how do you think about domestic versus international capacity in that construct? 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Glen William Hauenstein 
President, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
I think it is a – as good as any point to put on the map for the next three to five years. And I would say probably 
slightly more heavily weighted towards international growth. But not dramatically, so maybe 60/40 or 55/45, 
somewhere in that category. The other thing, I think that we didn't – we've talked about it for so many years and 
it's really not – we haven't done it yet, is to rebuild our interior US hubs. So Atlanta for example, which pre-
pandemic during peak summer season was right around 1 million seats a week, flowing through Atlanta on Delta, 
which made it the largest hub in the history of aviation, it's been down in the 800s to 900s. 
 
This year we'll finally get it back over 1 million seats a week. And it will be – this summer schedule in Atlanta will 
be the first one since, it will be bigger than 2019, it will be a new record for the number. But driving that 
connectivity, driving that efficiency is a real hallmark of where we've got to do that. And while we have Atlanta and 
Salt Lake now more than fully rebuilt, we're still working on Minneapolis and Detroit, which will come later in the 
year and into 2026. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Michael Linenberg 
Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.  Q 
Mike Linenberg, Deutsche Bank. Really a question to the team about sort of fleet needs and sort of where you are 
on re-fleeting. Do you feel like that you're locked down given the fact that we look at the OEMs and we realize 
that, we're probably going to be in a scarcity situation by the end of this decade. And as an add on to that, when 
you think about the MAX, the MAX 10 that you're planning to take delivery within the next few years, if there is a

Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL) 
Investor Day 
Corrected Transcript 
20-Nov-2024 
 
 
1-877-FACTSET   www.callstreet.com 
 34 
Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 
 
further delay or if it gets pushed back or your order superseded by somebody else, what is the backup plan on 
getting that narrowbody lift? 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Edward Herman Bastian 
Chief Executive Officer & Director, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
You want to take that? 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Daniel C. Janki 
Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Delta Air L ines, Inc. A 
Yeah we – as you know, you can see it in the contractual deliveries we have 300 aircraft on order split between 
both narrowbody and widebody. So, well-positioned as it relates to our order book for the next decade. We have 
options both on the widebody and on the neo, neo 70 options, the widebody 20, that we can decide on widebody 
what variant that we take. So, I think we're well-positioned, we will have to continue to see where Boeing 
progresses related to the MAX, we don't have that in our near-term fleet plan for the next couple of years. We'll 
see the progress that they've made. But I think, where we're positioned on that, we have flexibility around that and 
how we could manage that. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Edward Herman Bastian 
Chief Executive Officer & Director, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
And we have options within that contract ... 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Daniel C. Janki 
Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
... yes. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Edward Herman Bastian 
Chief Executive Officer & Director, Delta Air Lines, Inc. A 
with Boeing, if the [ph] 10 isn't (02:30:40) produced or we have to revisit other product. You're also going to see 
us potentially extend lives on whether it's a 75s or 73s, 738s. We have the capability to do that. And we've been 
able to do that over time and that could also be part of the mix here, too. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Michael Linenberg 
Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.  Q 
Great. And then just my second question, Glen, back when you were talking about the technology on the pricing 
front, I sort of feel like the Holy Grail on supply and demand is sort of meeting each and every individual's 
personal demand curve. And I kind of got the sense that you were sort of going down that path with some of the 
new technology. Compare and contrast that with continuous pricing, right. We had a non-US carrier, I think a 
week ago or two weeks ago announced that they're going to launch continuous pricing. Is that what that really is 
or is this slightly different? Thank you. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Glen William Hauenstein 
President, Delta Air Lines, Inc. A 
I think continuous pricing is certainly an element. And we will get to continuous pricing in the next three to five 
years. Again I think this is something that you don't want to be on the front end of, you want to be as – you want to 
meet people where they want to be met. And I think right now, defining what continuous pricing is is really 
important. And we're working in our models for our AI solutions to understand what that is.

Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL) 
Investor Day 
Corrected Transcript 
20-Nov-2024 
 
 
1-877-FACTSET   www.callstreet.com 
 35 
Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 
 
 
But yeah, I think the answer, the Holy Grail, is to get you the right offer in your hand at the right time. And 
somebody asked about conversion rates. That's what really pushes conversion rates up. And the termination of 
your shopping experience is your purchase. And so, if we can get that more efficiently to you and understand if 
you didn't – why you didn't and if we are interested then remarket to you, and that will all be enabled in the 
medium to long-term. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Edward Herman Bastian 
Chief Executive Officer & Director, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
Yeah. We think there's real opportunity, obviously, Mike. And I mentioned it's a bit of a throwaway comment, but 
your Net Promoter Score, we trust the numbers, is that meaningful. That much higher than your revenue 
premium, by definition, there's opportunity there. And so, we think it's going to be fertile, when we figure out the 
best way to secure it. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Stephen Darrell Trent 
Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc.  Q 
Good morning, gentlemen. Steve Trent from Citi. Thank you very much for the presentation. I wanted to ask 
about, how you're thinking about fuel, sort of holistically from a hedging perspective, 2009 you guys synthetically 
hedged, I believe. Today, you're not hedging, but you have Trainer and now your premium is growing significantly. 
So when we think about how this looks long-term, how should we think about the puts and takes between you 
maximizing Trainer and having really strong growth and a premium when you think about fuel hedging? Thank 
you. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Daniel C. Janki 
Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, De lta Air Lines, Inc. A 
We don't hedge fuel other than the operational hedge and we won't hedge fuel especially when ... 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Edward Herman Bastian 
Chief Executive Officer & Director, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
... as long as I'm around. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Daniel C. Janki 
Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
When Ed is around. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Edward Herman Bastian 
Chief Executive Officer & Director, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
I've lost way too much money hedging fuel. So I swore off that drug a long time ago. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Daniel C. Janki 
Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
Yeah, yeah. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Edward Herman Bastian 
Chief Executive Officer & Director, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
I'm glad I did.

Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL) 
Investor Day 
Corrected Transcript 
20-Nov-2024 
 
 
1-877-FACTSET   www.callstreet.com 
 36 
Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 
 
Daniel C. Janki 
Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
But as you mentioned, with the refinery, we have an operational hedge as it relates to refining margins and that – 
and certainty of supply into the Northeast. It meets all our needs into the Northeast and then it provides that 
operational hedge on that. And that's unique because you can't do that actually in the financial markets, and do it 
effectively associated with that. And it's served us really well over the last decade, especially over the last three 
years, as there's been so much dislocation, as it relates to the movement of refined product, and the ability of a lot 
of that refined product to come into the Northeast. So we're quite pleased about how the team's performing and 
where it sits. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Edward Herman Bastian 
Chief Executive Officer & Director, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
Every time you're tempted to hedge fuel, you look at it and it goes lower, right? Or it goes up. You just can't – we 
can't pay it. We can't afford the cost of that insurance. And by the way, as owners, I think you want us more agile, 
responding real time, not sitting on a fuel hedge, thinking that we can kind of sit out a pricing move. Or you want 
us moving with the market and staying ahead of the market and having that agility and that flexibility as market 
facing is really valuable. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Daniel C. Janki 
Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
I agree. I agree. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Stephen Darrell Trent 
Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc.  Q 
No. Great color. And if I may follow up, my second question, maybe one for you, Glen. It was interesting to hear 
you mention how people start going to premium and they don't really go back, to what extent did your business 
see any premium passenger flow in 2019 go to the private jet side of the fence? And if so, to what degree have 
you seen them return to Delta first class or what have you? 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Glen William Hauenstein 
President, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
I think I'm going to let Ed handle this because I think our integration of Wheels Up is a really important opportunity 
for us to continue to think about what is our top end and where those customers sit. So... 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Edward Herman Bastian 
Chief Executive Officer & Director, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
Yeah, we certainly saw some of that, Stephen, and we've seen them come back at the same time. In fact, in a – 
was one of the things that drove Wheels Up into some duress is because while a lot of people – the demand was 
pretty high during COVID. Once things started to stabilize, those customers came back to Delta or to other 
commercial providers. But I think the George Mattson's here somewhere running our Wheels Up, he's a year into 
the turnaround. We got some work to do, but eventually it's going to be our next step on our premium ladder. 
 
No airline has ever been able to integrate commercial with a private opportunity. We have Delta people inside 
Wheels Up on loan, and learning about the business, and how we can schedule it, how we can price it, how we 
can operationalize it. We're the world's best at all that stuff. And while the market's different, the customer base is 
a little different. It's also something that's easy to get your arms around. In the next couple of years, I think you're

Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL) 
Investor Day 
Corrected Transcript 
20-Nov-2024 
 
 
1-877-FACTSET   www.callstreet.com 
 37 
Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 
 
going to see that asset grow meaningfully, and I think you're going to see a lot of value that we're creating, not 
just for our business, but potentially as owners. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Stephen Darrell Trent 
Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc.  Q 
Great. Thank you. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Catherine O'Brien 
Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC Q 
Hi. Catie O'Brien, Goldman Sachs. Thanks for having us today. On shareholder returns, Ed, I think, you 
mentioned that as you get closer to 1 times gross leverage you would consider shareholder – share buybacks of 
the dividend, maybe not necessarily all the way down to one. I guess, do you have a certain threshold you have in 
mind? And then on that, total realized that the EPS target of 10% growth, that's an average over the next couple 
of years. But does that envision shareholder returns or would that be incremental? 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Edward Herman Bastian 
Chief Executive Officer & Director, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
Well, when we're sitting today at 2.7 times, I'm not thinking about it. When we have a one handle on it, we'll start 
to think about it. I'm not saying we're not going to start sort of thinking till we get to 1 times just 1.0 times. But the 
closer we get to it, of course, we think about it. We think about where the stock price is. We'll think about 
opportunities. 
 
If there was a dip to occur at some point, would we have a shelf available to us at some point potentially? But no, 
I want to keep getting that debt paydown, and want to make certain that we're not reliant on a government or 
anyone else for our future outcomes, and we'll be probably only airline that can say that. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Daniel C. Janki 
Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
Yeah. And the 10% does not have us acquiring any shares in it. It does benefit from working that gross debt 
down. So your interest expense improves – continues to improve every year because of that. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Catherine O'Brien 
Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC  Q 
Makes full sense. And then maybe just one more on American Express. Steve said last night that he doesn't want 
to ever get to an RFP process that stalls partnership. I think your current contract ends late 2028 or 2029. The last 
couple you've renegotiated several years in advance, is that something we should have in mind for the next 
couple of years? And then on that, for the next step of the contract, is it about Delta getting better economics and 
that's the upside? Or is it more about innovating together to get the billings and acquisitions higher? 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Edward Herman Bastian 
Chief Executive Officer & Director, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
Well, I think the contract ends 2029? 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Daniel C. Janki 
Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
In 2029.

Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL) 
Investor Day 
Corrected Transcript 
20-Nov-2024 
 
 
1-877-FACTSET   www.callstreet.com 
 38 
Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 
 
Edward Herman Bastian 
Chief Executive Officer & Director, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
2029. And these are pretty complicated arrangements with a lot of money, a lot of value for both sides. So, it 
takes a while to work through. So, not yet, but over the next couple of years, we'll probably start that process. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Christopher Stathoulopoulos 
Analyst, Susquehanna Financial Group LLL P Q 
Chris Stathoulopoulos, Susquehanna. Just, Glen, I want to dig in or better understand the inputs as we think 
about so margins here, going back to margins. On the domestic side, it sounds like it's more until this inventory of 
main here in the US, I guess, stabilizes. It's going to be more premium and loyalty led growing in your core hubs, 
low-risk growth as you said. On the other side of that, we do have the CASM ex heavy regional growth. Could you 
talk a little bit about how you see gauge and connectivity within the domestic side? 
 
And then on the international piece, I think you said more balanced. Your last Investor Day, I believe there were 
some slides around that. And I think the focus was growing at your partner hub. So – but just kind of fill in some 
more the detail on the international side. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Glen William Hauenstein 
President, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
Sure. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Christopher Stathoulopoulos 
Analyst, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP  Q 
Thank you. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Glen William Hauenstein 
President, Delta Air Lines, Inc. A 
Let me start with the international first. I think our biggest opportunity on premium products and services is in the 
international arena. That's where we are short on supply and high on demand. And so, continuing to satisfy those 
through the fleet up-gauge in the widebodies, the retirement of the 76s. They're bringing on of the A350s and the 
three A350-1000s which will occur in 2026. Those will really, I think, start to satisfy. 
 
We've already committed to reconfiguring our existing A350-900s to a higher D1 configuration that will occur or 
it's occurring now, but it'll, I think, finalize over the next 18 months as we get those all to be standard, and improve 
the utilization of the fleet. So, I think international has more premium legs than domestic as we stood today. And I 
think getting those products and services that we've invested like Delta One will have a disproportionate impact 
because we have very few domestic Delta One seats. 
 
So, most of those are geared towards improvement of the international fare structures over time. So, I think we 
have a huge runway on international, and it'll be not only driven by additional frequencies. What we've seen right 
now and for the foreseeable future is US point of origin is where it's at, and US point of origin, high-end leisure is 
where it's at. Germany, for example, is really struggling in terms of its corporate demand, and it's not a huge 
tourist destination. So really focusing on where people want to go today and using our partner hubs to get them 
there if we don't fly non-stop, and continuing to work on gauge internationally and product internationally. 
 
Domestically, we're taking kind of a breather. Our long-term desire is to continue to grow gauge. But as we can 
start to retire some of the widebody – some of the largest narrowbody equipment we have, particularly the 757,

Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL) 
Investor Day 
Corrected Transcript 
20-Nov-2024 
 
 
1-877-FACTSET   www.callstreet.com 
 39 
Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 
 
which is starting its retirement phase this year, that's taking 199 seats out. And what we're replacing it with is 191 
seat A321 or A – an A220-300, which is really the growth vehicle down at the bottom end of the spectrum at 130 
seats. 
 
And so, in the long run, we will continue our ascension of gauge domestically, but we're taking a breather here for 
the next couple of years. And it's going to be more based on shells than it will be on gauge domestically for the 
next two years to three years until we get the bulk of the 75s retired and really more towards the end of the five-
year period. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Christopher Stathoulopoulos 
Analyst, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP  Q 
Okay. As a follow-up, going back to the AI piece, So if I understand, it's – you said low single-digit, very small 
piece here, a lot of rigorous testing versus the beta set. What's really the sort – the gating factor to the next 
evolution here? Is it just accumulating data and letting the technology learn and mature? And then also, does the 
targets here contemplate a phase 2 or fuller unlocking of this at the system level? And I want to be clear that the 
testing you're doing, I think you mentioned some international O&D pairs. Is this localized to just select markets or 
you're running it holistically across system? Thank you. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Glen William Hauenstein 
President, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
Right. Well, we have about 1% of our O&Ds in 1% of our revenue, and we're learning. One of the things we 
learned is that it does better if you give it an entire city rather than a market. So a market would be JFK, LA, but 
you need to give it all of a city, so you have to give it all of JFK, and it does better learning that way. So we're 
learning how it learns. We're learning how to manage it. And we don't really have, I would say, enough data yet to 
put that into our three- to five-year plan as, kind of, upside. I'd say it's − we believe that it has further upside to the 
numbers you saw today, but we're not counting on it because we have to see how it performs at scale. The other 
thing we have to see is we believe there's a first mover advantage, but we also believe that over time our 
competitors will all have this. And so, how much of that advantage gets diminished? 
 
I think what I'm most excited about is the ability to hold pricing premiums based on your brand, which I talked 
about earlier is to say, and I'll give you an example. If we float a fair increase, that's $5 and we wait 24 hours to 48 
hours, or 72 hours to see if the industry matches it. Very rarely do you see our bookings decline significantly. So 
inherently in your mind you think, oh my gosh, you can probably hold some nominal fare increase, those nominal 
fare increases add up. 
 
And so if we could actually pinpoint where in each individual market we can the Delta brand, and it clearly in 
places like LaGuardia, Atlanta where, we have hourly service, we could probably hold more, connect markets 
where we're one of many, and we hold less. But understanding that dynamic and then putting that dynamic into 
the pricing environment, and leaving it there, and then, monitoring it on real time basis, if it's creating answers you 
don't like. I mean, the value of that is enormous and that's what I get really excited about. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Daniel McKenzie 
Analyst, Seaport Global Securities LLC  Q 
Yeah. Hey. Thanks so much, guys, for the presentation today. And I would love to continue that line of 
questioning. And my sense is the shift to AI and pricing is months away, not years away. So just to put a finer 
point on that, it sounds like that's not embedded into the – that upside is not embedded into the 2025 outlook at 
this point. Is that correct?

Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL) 
Investor Day 
Corrected Transcript 
20-Nov-2024 
 
 
1-877-FACTSET   www.callstreet.com 
 40 
Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 
 
Glen William Hauenstein 
President, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
Right. I don't think that we'll get to 100% ubiquity by the end of next year, I think it's going to take 18 months to 24 
months, but it would be more than one. Will it be 20? Will it be 40? I mean, that's what I think we're trying to work 
on here to make sure that we don't. It could also – set to the wrong dials, it could be very destructive. And so, we 
want to make sure that we have all the dials set, and that we have all the processes in place before we put too 
much of the revenue of the company across. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Daniel McKenzie 
Analyst, Seaport Global Securities LLC  Q 
Okay. Thank you for that point. One second follow-up question here and this is really unpacking, putting a bow on 
some of the prior questions that were asked, and just putting a bow on 2025 growth. Corporate revenue's up high 
single digits. Corporate spend is up mid-single digits. Is that how we should think about that supply/demand 
dynamic? I sort of missed the corporate slide that you've had in prior years. And then as we kind of unpack that 
growth, what does that imply for mainline cabin or basic economy seat growth? 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Glen William Hauenstein 
President, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
Well, I mean, generally, I'd say we're excited when basic economy offerings are shrinking because that means 
that the offerings that are sitting on top of them are greater. And I would say I would be disappointed in 2025 if we 
had more basic economy availability than we did in 2024 and that's being choked off by higher end demand and 
higher end demand is coming through corporate, but also high end leisure. And both of those segments are doing 
quite well right now. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Thomas Fitzgerald 
Analyst, TD Cowen Q 
Hi. Tom Fitzgerald from TD Cowen, thanks so much for the time. Glen, you talked about having a really clean 
retail experience and not having – not overwhelming the consumer. How do you balance that with maybe the 
further segmentation and offering subcategories within your fare classes? 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Glen William Hauenstein 
President, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
So, I think if you said we have an a la carte, if you think about a restaurant maybe and a la carte menu and we've 
all been to – I grew up in New Jersey, so I've been to the diners in New Jersey in the 1970s and 1980s. The 
menus were immense. And it was such a hard time deciding what you were going to have. Am I going to go 
Italian. Am I going to go Greek? What am I going to have? 
 
And I think our ability to distill that to things that are relevant to customers are having that menu have just a 
handful of SKUs rather than an infinite number of SKUs. And then, as we identify you and your purchase patterns, 
we can present you your array within the set or people like you, we've noticed you've never bought a basic 
economy. So here's your array. We're not even going to show it to you anymore because we know you don't want 
it. If you want to see it, click here. 
 
But, really tailoring that menu to the customer and saying, oh, we know you love fish, here are our fish selections. 
And I think that's really an analogy to try and describe. We don't want the menu to be too big. We want it to be 
customized enough and just right with enough selections that you feel like you're being – your needs are being 
met. Not too many, not too little.

Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL) 
Investor Day 
Corrected Transcript 
20-Nov-2024 
 
 
1-877-FACTSET   www.callstreet.com 
 41 
Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 
 
Thomas Fitzgerald 
Analyst, TD Cowen Q 
That's really helpful. And then just if I may, as a follow up. We talked a lot about technology on the revenue side. 
What are some of the things you're excited about on the operational front, helping your people do their jobs better, 
more efficiently, whether it's tech ops or other things that we should be thinking about? Thanks again. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Edward Herman Bastian 
Chief Executive Officer & Director, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
You want to try that, Dan? 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Daniel C. Janki 
Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
Yeah, sure. What we do every day is operationally complex. We've been in a lot of businesses, and this is one 
that there's a lot of variables at play. And I think the more that you can provide analytics and decision made that – 
augment decision making for operators that help them make better decisions with real-time data. And when you 
look across it, you're going to see in regards to one is cruise, how do you best set a schedule? How do you then 
operate to the schedule based on where you want to fly, but also crew behavior, and getting best alignment 
because then you have rotations that are set that we want to be flown and they follow them efficiently and 
effectively and meet both crew's needs and the customers' needs. 
 
And you bring that together. You can also see it in regards to how do you manage in an irregular operation. 
There's a lot of data that's coming at operators at that point in time where they put aircraft, how they bring them 
back, how do they bring crews back, how best to gate them with in an operation. And I think as we continue to 
bring our data together and those decision analytics, it augments our people's decision-making so that we can do 
that more effectively and that will necessarily drive efficiencies. 
 
So, I think those are just some of the areas that you'll see it, see it again as it relates to customer care. You see it 
already in growing in the penetration, the types of capability that we can do. We can augment our customer care 
teams so that they can get to decisions faster, get a first time resolution, and get to decision making faster. So, 
you'll see it across our operation. We're really built for it and it will really augment what our teams do and allow 
them to do it more effectively. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Edward Herman Bastian 
Chief Executive Officer & Director, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
And given the fact that we've already now moved to the cloud, it's a big head start, so we can turn to – turn it. The 
only limiting factor is when we're ready to turn it on. We can turn it on now. We don't want to turn it on quite yet 
until we understand what it will be doing. So just like in revenue, we're going through the same process on the 
operating crew side, it's a three-year rollout in terms of where we're going, and we'll learn as we go, but it's all the 
numbers that you hear from Glen, have some big numbers attached to them, there's some big numbers attached 
to the operating side as well. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Julie Stewart 
Vice President‐Investor Relations & Corporate Development, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
Well, now take our final question for this session from Helane Becker. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL) 
Investor Day 
Corrected Transcript 
20-Nov-2024 
 
 
1-877-FACTSET   www.callstreet.com 
 42 
Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 
 
Helane Becker 
Analyst, TD Cowen Q 
Thanks, Julie. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Edward Herman Bastian 
Chief Executive Officer & Director, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
Appropriately so, yeah. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Helane Becker 
Analyst, TD Cowen Q 
Thanks, team. Thanks for inviting me. It's nice to be here. Actually, this is my question. When you think about 
international, how do you think about international outbound versus international inbound? Because outbound has 
recovered and is well above pre-pandemic levels, but inbound is still down from where we were five years ago, A. 
And B, the US is not always a hospitable place... 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Glen William Hauenstein 
President, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
Excuse me. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Helane Becker 
Analyst, TD Cowen Q 
...for international. I hope you get a chance to recover from your cold. International – the US isn't always a 
hospitable place for people who aren't native English speakers. So I'm just kind of wondering how you balance it 
all out going, I don't know, the next year or so? 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Glen William Hauenstein 
President, Delta Air Lines, Inc.  A 
So, I'm going to take a stab at that. And in an earlier response, I think I alluded to we are focused on high point of 
sale US outbound markets today. So Italy, Greece, Spain and Germany, higher German point of sale, corporate 
out. German economy as you know is not doing well. But in a longer or how should I say this is even in the 
medium and long term, fares, dollar-based US fares are significantly higher than and have been for the last 15 
years or 20 years than European based fares. So we always have this natural bias to take US over a foreign point 
of sale. And that bias has gotten stronger and stronger as the dollar has continued to strengthen and as US 
spending power has really increased while European spending power in the US has diminished. So we've really 
re-changed our whole network and our network thinking of concentrate right now, and this will always change 
over time on high point of sale US, high point of sale, dollar-based, and the networks evolve to that. 
 
Will it evolve again? Yes. And that's where I think we really need to count on our partners, because our partners 
have such a great counterbalance for that, and there are European hubs coming to the US. They're also looking 
for dollars too, because the fares are higher, but they're more naturally better positioned to take a higher point of 
sale US and then put that traffic on to Delta. So, it ebbs and it flows. This is about the most US point of origin 
centric, I think this airline's ever been, and probably the same for some of our competitors. 
 .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................  
Julie Stewart 
Vice President‐Investor Relations & Corporate Development, Delta Air Lines, Inc.

Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL) 
Investor Day 
Corrected Transcript 
20-Nov-2024 
 
 
1-877-FACTSET   www.callstreet.com 
 43 
Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 
 
Okay. That will conclude the Q&A session. And for those of you online, thank you for joining us today. That 
concludes the webcast portion of the event. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Disclaimer 
The information herein is based on sources we believe to be reliable but is not guaranteed by us and does not purport to be a  complete or error -free statement or summary of the available data. 
As such, we do not warrant, endorse or guarantee the completeness, accuracy, integrity, or timeliness of the information. You  must evaluate, and bear all risks associated with, the use of any 
information provided hereunder, including any re liance on the accuracy, completeness, safety or usefulness of such information. This information is not intended to be used a s the primary basis 
of investment decisions. It should not be construed as advice designed to meet the particular investment needs of any investor. This report is published solely for information purposes, and is 
not to be construed as financial or other advice or as an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any security i n any state where such an offer or solicitation w ould be illegal. Any 
information expressed herein on this date is subject to change without notice. Any opinions or assertions contained in this i nformation do not represent the opinions or beliefs of FactSet 
CallStreet, LLC. FactSet CallStreet, LLC, or one or more of its employees, including the writer of this report, may have a position in any of the securities discussed herei n. 
 
THE INFORMATION PROVIDED TO YOU HEREUNDER IS PROVIDED "AS IS," AND TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, FactSet  CallStreet, LLC AND ITS LICENSORS, 
BUSINESS ASSOCIATES AND SUPPLIERS DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES WITH RESPECT TO THE SAME, EXPRESS, IMPLIED AND STATUTORY, INCLUDING  WITHOUT LIMITATION ANY IMPLIED 
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, ACCURACY, COMPLETENESS, AND NON -INFRINGEMENT. TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE 
LAW, NEITHER FACTSET CALLSTREET, LLC NOR ITS OFFICERS, MEMBERS, DIRECTORS, PARTNERS, AFFILIATES, BUSINESS ASSOCIATES, LICENSO RS OR SUPPLIERS WILL BE LIABLE FOR ANY 
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, CONSEQUENTIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION DAMAGES FOR LOST PROFITS OR RE VENUES, GOODWILL, WORK STOPPAGE, 
SECURITY BREACHES, VIRUSES, COMPUTER FAILURE OR MALFUNCTION, USE, DATA OR OTHER INTANGIBLE LOSSES OR COMMERCIAL DAMAGES, EVEN IF ANY OF SUCH PARTIES IS ADVISED 
OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH LOSSES, ARISING UNDER OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE INFORMATION PROVIDED HEREIN OR ANY OTHER SUBJECT M ATTER HEREOF. 
 
The contents and appearance of this report are Copyrig hted FactSet CallStreet, LLC 2024 CallStreet and FactSet CallStreet, LLC are trademarks and service marks of FactSet CallStreet, LLC. All 
other trademarks mentioned are trademarks of their respective companies. All rights reserved.