IHG negatively changed its dynamic award pricing algorithm - The Points Guy
Skip to content
Menu
Go to Home Page
Subscribe
Advertiser disclosure
Search The Points Guy
Advertiser disclosure
ADVERTISEMENT
News
IHG negatively changed its dynamic award pricing algorithm: Here's what we know
Katie Genter
Katie Genter
Lead writer
Katie Genter is a digital nomad who has traveled full time since June 2017. She writes and edits stories about points and miles, and loyalty programs, often letting her personal experiences color these stories.
July 10, 2024
•
5 min read
IHG negatively changed its dynamic award pricing algorithm: Here's what we know
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Copy URL
Email
The cards we feature here are from partners who compensate us when you are approved through our site, and this may impact how or where these products appear. We don’t cover all available credit cards, but our analysis, reviews, and opinions are entirely from our editorial team. Terms apply to the offers listed on this page. Please view our
advertising policy
and
product review methodology
for more information.
IHG One Rewards
slowly rolled out dynamic award pricing in 2020, starting with
properties in Greater China
and eventually reaching
U.S. properties
. Then,
IHG's dynamic award pricing algorithms went wild
as rates spiked at specific properties in 2021. Now, we're potentially seeing another less obvious devaluation.
Over the last year, I've
redeemed IHG points
for 30 nights. Across these nights, including six fourth-night-free reward nights, I got a redemption rate of 0.98 cents per point. My redemption rate would have been 0.78 cents per point if I didn't have the
IHG One Rewards Premier Credit Card
(see
rates and fees
) and its
fourth-night-free reward benefit
.
However, as
Loyalty Lobby
recently noted, travelers booking award stays now aren't getting redemption rates that are as good. I've noticed lower redemption rates in searches over the last month, but I figured it was simply the properties and destinations I was searching for. It seems I wasn't alone, and these lower redemption rates are evidence of negative changes to IHG's dynamic award pricing algorithm.
Related:
How (and why) to calculate award redemption values
Let's examine a few stays from Nov. 4 through Nov. 8 to see what redemption rates you can expect now. For each example, I'll compare the award rate to the least expensive rate you can freely cancel until shortly before your stay.
I could book a one-king studio suite with a sofa bed at the Staybridge Suites Austin North — Parmer Lane in Texas for $650.18. If I booked the stay with IHG points, I'd redeem 75,000 points after a fourth-night-free reward as an IHG Premier cardholder. That would result in a redemption rate of 0.87 cents per point. If I didn't have access to the IHG Premier's fourth-night-free reward benefit, I'd need to redeem 100,000 points, which would only give me 0.65 cents per point in value.
IHG.COM
If I wanted to stay at the more centrally located Holiday Inn Express & Suites Austin Downtown — University, I could book a standard district view room with one king bed for $866.91. As an IHG Premier cardholder, I'd need 107,000 points for this stay (or 150,000 points if I didn't have access to the fourth-night-free reward benefit), which would give me a redemption rate of 0.81 cents per point (or 0.58 cents per point without the fourth-night-free reward).
IHG.COM
Let's jump over to Paris for the next example. I could stay in a standard room with one double bed at the Crowne Plaza Paris — Republique for $1,312.16. As an IHG Premier cardholder, I could redeem 164,000 points for a redemption rate of 0.80 cents per point. Without the fourth-night-free benefit, I'd need to redeem 221,000 points for a redemption rate of 0.59 cents per point.
IHG.COM
Alternatively, I could book an essential room at the Kimpton St Honore Paris for $2,585.24. As an IHG Premier cardholder, I could book the same room type for 331,000 points after the fourth-night-free reward, netting me a 0.78 cents per point redemption rate. Without the fourth-night-free reward, I'd need to redeem 433,000 points for a 0.60 cents per point redemption rate.
Daily Newsletter
Reward your inbox with the TPG Daily newsletter
Join over 700,000 readers for breaking news, in-depth guides and exclusive deals from TPG’s experts
Email address
Sign up
By signing up, you will receive newsletters and promotional content and agree to our
Terms of Use
and acknowledge the data practices in our
Privacy Policy
. You may unsubscribe at any time.
IHG.COM
Let's head to Tokyo for two final examples. I could book a standard room with one queen bed at the Hotel Indigo Tokyo Shibuya for $1,722.81. With the fourth-night-free reward, I could redeem 242,000 points for a 0.71 cents per point redemption rate. Without the fourth-night-free reward, I'd need to redeem 324,000 points for a 0.53 cents per point redemption rate.
IHG.COM
If I wanted to save some points or cash, I could book a one-king classic harbor view room at the InterContinental Yokohama Grand for $544.67. With the fourth-night-free reward, I could redeem 73,000 points for a 0.75 cents per point redemption rate. Without the fourth-night-free reward, I'd need to redeem 101,000 points for a 0.54 cents per point redemption rate.
IHG.COM
I selected three popular destinations and two hotels in each destination on dates I chose randomly. Based on these six examples and my experience searching for award stays over the last month or so, it seems IHG has negatively changed its dynamic award pricing algorithm.
A spokesperson for IHG Hotels & Resorts issued the following statement to TPG:
"IHG continues to use a dynamic pricing model, which is impacted by travel demand, seasonality, and a number of factors like you mentioned. Travel demand is high, especially in popular travel destinations during a peak travel season.
"We know points are the number one reason our members join the program. We encourage them to take advantage of ways to stretch their points further and explore our Reward Nights discount landing page that features new & freshly renovated hotels. All IHG One Rewards members can regularly access 15% discounts on Reward Nights at newly opened and revamped IHG hotels globally. We also offer special Reward Night discounts for our Platinum and Diamond Elite members and cardholders throughout the year."
As these examples show, you can still get more than 0.5 cents per point — the rate at which you can occasionally purchase IHG points and TPG's July 2024
valuation
of IHG points — even if you don't have access to the fourth-night-free reward benefit. And if you have the
IHG One Rewards Premier Credit Card
, the
IHG One Rewards Traveler Credit Card
(see
rates and fees
) or the
IHG One Rewards Premier Business Credit Card
(see
rates and fees
) and hence get a fourth-night-free reward when redeeming IHG points, you can get even higher redemption values.
That said, it still stings to be getting significantly lower redemption rates now than I have over the last year.
Featured image by
OSCAR WONG/GETTY IMAGES
Editorial disclaimer: Opinions expressed here are the author’s alone, not those of any bank, credit card issuer, airline or hotel chain, and have not been reviewed, approved or otherwise endorsed by any of these entities.
TPG featured card
Bilt Palladium Card
TPG Editor‘s Rating
4
/ 5
Go to review
Apply for
Bilt Palladium Card
Apply now
for
Bilt Palladium Card
at
Bilt
's secure site
Terms & restrictions apply.
See rates & fees.
Rewards rate
1X
Choose to earn up to 1X points on rent and mortgage payments with no transaction fee
2X
Earn 2X points + the option to earn 4% back in Bilt Cash on everyday purchases
Intro offer
Open
Intro bonus
Welcome bonus (subject to approval): 50,000 Bilt Points + Gold Status after spending $4,000 on everyday purchases in the first 90 days + $300 of Bilt Cash.
50,000 Bilt Points + Gold Status + $300 of Bilt Cash
Annual fee
$495
Regular APR
26.74 - 34.74% variable
Recommended credit
Open
Credit score description
Credit ranges are a variation of FICO® Score 8, one of many types of credit scores lenders may use when considering your credit card application.
Good Credit, Excellent Credit
VIEW MORE
Pros + cons
More details
Pros
Choice to earn up to 1 Bilt Point per dollar spent on rent and mortgage payments
Elevated everyday earnings with both Bilt Points and the option to earn Bilt Cash
$400 Bilt Travel Portal hotel credit per year (up to $200 biannually)
$200 Bilt Cash annually
Priority Pass membership
No foreign transaction fees
Cons
Moderate annual fee
Designed primarily for members seeking a premium, all-in-one card
Earn points on housing with no transaction fee
Choose to earn 4% back in Bilt Cash on everyday spend. Use Bilt Cash to unlock point earnings on rent and mortgage payments with no transaction fee, up to 1X.
2X points on everyday spend
$400 Bilt Travel Hotel credit. Applied twice a year, as $200 statement credits, for qualifying Bilt Travel Portal hotel bookings.
$200 Bilt Cash (awarded annually). At the end of each calendar year, any Bilt Cash balance over $100 will expire.
Welcome bonus (subject to approval): 50,000 Bilt Points + Gold Status after spending $4,000 on everyday purchases in the first 90 days + $300 of Bilt Cash.
Priority Pass ($469/year value). See
Guide to Benefits
.
Bilt Point redemptions include airlines, hotels, future rent and mortgage payments, Lyft rides, statement credits, student loan balances, a down payment on a home, and more.
gtm--featured-card-11038
Maximize your travel
Facebook
Instagram
YouTube
Twitter
TikTok
Sign up for our daily newsletter for the latest news, deals and tips.
Email address
Subscribe
By signing up, you will receive newsletters and promotional content and agree to our
Terms of Use
and acknowledge the data practices in our
Privacy Policy
. You may unsubscribe at any time.
Meet TPG
About us
TPG gives back
Careers
Contact us
Site map
Newsletters
Legal
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
Privacy policy
Terms of use
Cookie settings
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Our Commitment to Transparency
The Points Guy believes that credit cards can transform lives, helping you leverage everyday spending for cash back or travel experiences that might otherwise be out of reach. That’s why we publish a variety of editorial content and card comparisons: to help you find a great card to turn your goals into reality.
Our site may earn compensation when a customer clicks on a link, when an application is approved, or when an account is opened with our partners, and this may impact how or where these products appear. While we don’t cover all available credit cards, our editorial team creates and maintains all of the analysis of these cards, and our content is not influenced nor subject to review by any credit card company, bank or partner prior to (or after) publication. Please view our
advertising policy
and
product review methodology
for more information.
Copyright ©
2026
The Points Guy, LLC. All rights reserved. A Red Ventures company.