Did JetBlue just admit to surveillance pricing? Airline now says viral post about $230 fare hike was an error. | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Home
News
MarketWatch
Did JetBlue just admit to surveillance pricing? Airline now says viral post about $230 fare hike was an error.
Did JetBlue just admit to surveillance pricing? Airline now says viral post about $230 fare hike was an error.
Provided by
Dow Jones
Apr 25, 2026, 2:26:00 PM
By Genna Contino
Consumer advocates say a deleted social-media post exposed how airlines use your personal data against you, but experts warn incognito mode is a weak shield against modern pricing practices
Consumer advocates say JetBlue admitted to using surveillance pricing by advising a customer on social media to clear their cache or use incognito mode to shop for airfare. The airline said the now-deleted post was an error.
When a frustrated JetBlue customer took to social media to complain about a flight price jumping $230 in one day, the carrier responded with advice to clear their cache and use an incognito browser to find cheaper airfare.
JetBlue (JBLU) has since deleted the post and called it an employee's "error," but not before the internet flagged the response as a quiet admission of surveillance pricing, which is the controversial practice of using personal data to set individualized prices.
One post from an anti-digital-surveillance X account calling out the airline was viewed by 2.6 million users as of early Monday afternoon. New York state Assemblymember Emerita Torres posted as well, saying "our personal data should not be used against us. We should not have to go incognito to avoid price gouging."
Read more: Employers are using your personal data to figure out the lowest salary you'll accept
Democratic U.S. Rep. Greg Casar from Texas said "Using people's personal data to charge them more should be illegal," in response to a separate JetBlue tweet from February where the airline gave a different customer similar advice.
A JetBlue spokesperson apologized for this week's error in an email to MarketWatch and said its fares "are not determined by cached data or other personal information." Instead, the airline said pricing is based on real-time availability and can change at any moment based on demand.
Consumer advocates still aren't convinced.
"JetBlue accidentally tweeted their cold-blooded confession: They are using customers' search history against them to drive up price," said Lindsay Owens, executive director of the progressive think tank Groundwork Collaborative. "While JetBlue is now claiming the post was an 'error,' their only mistake was pulling back the curtain on their own deceptive pricing practices."
Whether the tweet was a confession or a clerical error, travel experts say the advice on how to avoid surprise price jumps is a relic of a simpler internet. The trick of using an incognito browser to find cheaper airfare is unlikely to yield major savings because airlines have sophisticated ways of identifying stored cookies and users' locations.
"I'm going to be honest: Clearing your cache and going incognito to 'beat' flight pricing is largely a myth," said Katie Lynn Reynolds, a travel agent at Travelmation. "I'm constantly pricing out airfare, and the best deals typically don't come from refreshing your browser 47 times."
Read more: American Airlines says it's not interested in merging with United. One analyst sees consolidation elsewhere.
While travel agents see the incognito trick as an ineffective weapon, consumer advocates say it's one of the few tools consumers have to protect themselves from surveillance pricing. The practice of harvesting search history and personal data reaches far beyond the airline industry, Owens said, and corporations across all industries use "personal data against consumers to extract maximum profit."
For example, travelers from the San Francisco Bay Area were shown "substantially higher" hotel prices than people booking the same hotels from other parts of the country, a 2025 investigation by SFGate found. Consumer Reports and Groundwork Collaborative found that the grocery delivery service Instacart (CART) charged different amounts for the same items, depending on the customer. Instacart said it does not engage in surveillance pricing and that the varied prices were related to tests it was running, a practice which it then stopped.
Lawmakers have taken steps to curb surveillance pricing. Maryland's legislature just passed the Protection from Predatory Pricing Act, and if signed by the governor, it will become the first state law aimed at specifically banning surveillance pricing, according to Consumer Reports. New York state recently passed a rule requiring companies to disclose to consumers when their prices are set with algorithms that use their personal data, and Assemblymember Torres has introduced a bill called the One Fair Price Act that would outlaw surveillance pricing in New York.
If you're relying on an incognito window for your next trip, layering more traditional tactics might result in better deals. Your best bet for a cheaper fare is still booking early, setting up price-tracking alerts on sites like Google Flights (GOOG) (GOOGL) or working with a travel agent who has exclusive access to bulk fares.
"Airlines use an algorithm and cookies to assess rates and make changes," Reynolds said. "Your best option is truly just booking early."
Read next: Here's the real cost of economy airfare after all the fees. 'What's next - an add-on for access to the bathroom?'
Need help deciding which college you can afford, or managing your student loans? Join our next Don't Short Yourself Live on Wednesday, April 22, at 1:30 p.m. Eastern time, where MarketWatch's Beth Pinsker and college admissions expert Andy Lockwood will answer your questions about cutting college costs.
-Genna Contino
This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.
(END) Dow Jones Newswires
04-25-26 1026ET
Copyright (c) 2026 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
The articles, information, and content displayed on this webpage may
include materials prepared and provided by third parties. Such
third-party content is offered for informational purposes only and
is not endorsed, reviewed, or verified by Morningstar.
Morningstar makes no representations or warranties regarding the
accuracy, completeness, timeliness, or reliability of any third-party
content displayed on this site. The views and opinions expressed in
third-party content are those of the respective authors and do not
necessarily reflect the views of Morningstar, its affiliates, or employees.
Morningstar is not responsible for any errors, omissions, or delays
in this content, nor for any actions taken in reliance thereon.
Users are advised to exercise their own judgment and seek independent
financial advice before making any decisions based on such content.
The third-party providers of this content are not affiliated with
Morningstar, and their inclusion on this site does not imply any
form of partnership, agency, or endorsement.
More in Markets
View All
Investors Piled Into Dividend Stocks in Q1. Here’s Why They Might Be Disappointed
Recent history suggests investors are turning to dividend stocks less for income and more for defense.
Dan Lefkovitz
May 6, 2026
US Stock Market Outlook: Where to Find Value After April’s Rally
Our reallocation strategy is working as intended. Opportunities remain in AI, tech, and small-caps.
David Sekera, CFA
May 5, 2026
3 Overvalued Stocks to Take Profits In and 3 Undervalued Stocks to Buy Instead
Plus, our take on results from tech’s heavyweights.
David Sekera, CFA and Susan Dziubinski
May 4, 2026
More in Stocks
View All
21 New 4-Star Stocks This Week
Alphabet and Oracle are among the stocks that fell into undervalued territory.
Bella Albrecht
May 4, 2026
12 Newly Overvalued Stocks This Week
Micron and Siemens are among the stocks now rated as expensive.
Bella Albrecht
May 4, 2026
Is There More Bad News Ahead for This Already Struggling Industry?
Here’s why to watch the earnings reports from packaged foods companies this quarter.
David Sekera, CFA and Susan Dziubinski
May 6, 2026
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account.
Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation.
Develop and improve features of our offerings.
Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our
privacy center
.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy
to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Investing Terms and Definitions
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2026 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Center
Disclosures
Member User Agreement
Corrections
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
Accessibility