March 5, 2026 
 
Mr. David Risher 
Chief Executive Officer 
Lyft 
185 Berry Street, Suite 5000 
San Francisco, CA 94107 
 
Dear Mr. Risher:   
 
The Committee on Oversight and Government Reform is examining the increased use of 
artificial intelligence and consumer data for setting prices. Specifically, we are examining the use 
of artificial intelligence to conduct surveillance pricing of consumers that artificially increases 
the prices of goods and services.
1 Surveillance pricing refers to pricing practices in which a 
company uses consumer data to create a “profile” based on individualized data such as 
geolocation, demographics, browsing history, purchase history, device type, battery life, and even 
mouse clicks
2 to assign different prices to different individuals in ways the consumer cannot 
understand, anticipate, or control. A recent report indicates Lyft deploys AI-based pricing 
technology that prices identical products differently from one customer to the next by an average 
of 13 percent.3 The Committee therefore requests documents and information to better 
understand the policies guiding your company’s pricing practices. 
 
Companies utilizing surveillance pricing deploy algorithms in conjunction with 
“harvested” personal data to determine a consumer’s emotional state, purchase intent, maximum 
 
1 Robert Silk, ATPCO aims to help airlines do more dynamic pricing, TRAV E L WEEKLY (Apr. 12, 2024), available at 
https://www.travelweekly.com/Travel-News/Airline-News/ATPCO-dynamic-pricing-initiatives (“At present 258 
carriers do at least some dynamic pricing, up from 220 in the fall of 2022 . . .”); Justin Kloczko, New Report Details 
How Companies Use Surveillance to Charge Different Prices for the Same Item, CONSUMER WATCHDOG (Dec. 17, 
2024), available at https://consumerwatchdog.org/privacy/new-report-details-how-companies-use-surveillance-to-
charge-different-prices-for-the-same-item/ (“Orbitz learned that Mac users spend more money to stay at hotels and 
charged them more than non-Mac users.”). 
2 Press Release, Federal Trade Commission, FTC Surveillance Pricing Study Indicates Wide Range of Personal Data 
Used to Set Individualized Consumer Prices (Jan. 17, 2025); Dana Mattioli, On Orbitz, Mac Users Steered to Pricier 
Hotels, W
ALL ST. J. (Aug. 23, 2012); Justin Kloczko, Surveillance Price Gouging, CONSUMER WATCHDOG (Dec. 16, 
2024), available at https://consumerwatchdog.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/12/Surveillance-Price-Gouging.pdf, at 
1; Kyle Potter, Exclusive: US Airlines Are Quietly Hitting Solo & Biz Travelers with Higher Fares, THRIFTY 
TRA VELER (May 29, 2025), available at https://thriftytraveler.com/news/airlines/airlines-charging-solo-travelers-
higher-fares/. 
3 Geoffrey A. Fowler, I tested 80 Uber and Lyft rides and found a powerful way to save, WASH. POST, (Dec. 1, 
2025).

Mr. David Risher 
March 5, 2026 
Page 2 of 3 
 
willingness to pay (or so-called “pain point”) and an individualized price is tailored accordingly.4 
Often this takes place in a “black box” environment where consumers do not know that 
personalized pricing is taking place or what information collected about them are driving prices.5 
Surveillance pricing can be difficult to detect because consumers rarely have a view into what 
information a company has about them, what the prices they see are based on, or what prices 
other customers may be seeing for the same goods or services - making it difficult for consumers 
to make informed purchasing decisions.6  
 
To be clear, the Committee is supportive of the advancement and use of artificial 
intelligence tools that allow companies to align prices with demand fluctuations, consumer 
preferences, and operational costs to promote efficiency and greater market responsiveness.
7 
However, the rise of surveillance pricing algorithms coupled with highly personalized consumer 
data may create arbitrage opportunities for companies to “weaponize personal data” and pad 
their profit margins at the expense of providing transparency to the consumer.8  
  
To assist the Committee in its oversight of this matter, we request the following documents 
and information covering the time period from the initial implementation or consideration of 
such technologies through the present, as soon as possible, but no later than March 19, 2026: 
 
1. All documents and communications detailing revenue management algorithms deployed 
for the purpose of setting prices for fares, rates, or products/services to consumers, 
including but not limited to: 
a. When implementation of revenue management algorithms began; 
b. The financial impact of such revenue management algorithms including 
documents and communications that describe their impact on revenue, pricing, or 
profitability; and 
c. Any algorithms discussed or considered for future use for the same purposes; 
 
 
4 David Dayen, The Emerging Danger of Surveillance Pricing, JACOBIN (July 9, 2024), available at 
https://jacobin.com/2024/07/surveillance-personalized-pricing-data-collection; FED. TRADE COMM’N, FTC 
SURVEILLANCE PRICING 6(B): RESEARCH SUMMARIES A STAFF PERSPECTIVE (Jan. 2025), available at 
https://www.ftc.gov/system/files/ftc_gov/pdf/p246202_surveillancepricing6bstudy_researchsummaries_redacted.pdf
; Charles Duhigg, How Companies Learn Your Secrets, N . Y. TIMES MAGAZINE (Feb. 16, 2012).  
5 Emilio Calvano, et al., Artificial Intelligence, Algorithmic Pricing, and Collusion, 110 J. AM. ECON. REV. 10 (Oct. 
2020), at 3294; See FTC Issue Spotlight: The Rise of Surveillance Pricing, FED. TRADE COMM’N (Jan. 17, 2025), 
available at https://www.ftc.gov/system/files/ftc_gov/pdf/sp6b-issue-spotlight.pdf. 
6 Id.  
7 Aradhna Krishna, In defense of ‘surveillance pricing’: Why personalized prices could be an unexpected force for 
equity, THE CONVERSATION (Oct. 14, 2025), available at https://theconversation.com/in-defense-of-surveillance-
pricing-why-personalized-prices-could-be-an-unexpected-force-for-equity-266293. 
8 Justin Kloczko, Surveillance Price Gouging, CONSUMER WATCHDOG (Dec. 16, 2024), available at 
https://consumerwatchdog.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/12/Surveillance-Price-Gouging.pdf, at 1 (“It’s price 
gouging based on predictive behavior. Without more transparency, we don’t know how far surveillance pricing 
goes.”).

Mr. David Risher 
March 5, 2026 
Page 3 of 3 
 
2. All documents and communications detailing how consumer data is utilized in 
conjunction with any deployed revenue management algorithms to provide prices for the 
same fare, rate, or product/service to consumers, including but not limited to:  
a. Identifying data sources your company utilizes; 
b. How such data sources are obtained; 
c. Purposes for collecting such data sources; and 
d. Other data inputs that have been discussed for potential future use; 
 
3. All documents and communications detailing any use of a third-party organization to 
compile data sources including but not limited to the identity of the organization or 
intermediary from which they are obtained; 
 
4. All documents and communication showing whether the data sources your company 
utilizes are bought or sold – directly or indirectly – to any competitors including but not 
limited to any internal analyses or assessments concerning the sharing, sale, or 
acquisition of such data with or from competitors;  
 
5. All documents and communications describing the impact of consumer data on 
determining prices for the same product/service, including but not limited to analyses, 
presentations, or internal assessments that explain how consumer data influences pricing 
differences and how such pricing differences are internally justified; and, 
 
6. All documents and communications sufficient to show whether the information 
underlying pricing differences is reasonably explainable and/or disclosed to consumers, 
including but not limited to detailed descriptions, visual materials, screenshots, mock-
ups, or any other consumer-facing disclosures related to pricing. 
 
The Committee on Oversight and Government Reform is the principal oversight 
committee of the U.S. House of Representatives and has broad authority to investigate “any 
matter” at “any time” under House Rule X. To arrange for delivery of documents or to ask any 
related follow up questions, please contact the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform 
Majority staff at (202) 225-5074. Thank you for your attention to this important matter. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
     __________________________     
James Comer       
 Chairman      
 Committee on Oversight and Government Reform  
  
 
cc:  The Honorable Robert Garcia, Ranking Member 
  Committee on Oversight and Government Reform