A Modern Retailing Experience: American Airlines Signs New Agreements With All Three Major Global Distribution Systems - American Airlines Newsroom
Skip to main content
Skip to main content
Link to newsroom homepage
Search
Search query
Newsroom
News
About
About us
Our leadership
Join our team
Sustainability
Sustainability report
Community support
Our culture
Multimedia
Images
Videos
Podcasts
Fact sheets
Logos
Subscribe
Newsroom
>
News
>
Press Release Details
10/24/2022
A Modern Retailing Experience: American Airlines Signs New Agreements With All Three Major Global Distribution Systems
(English)
(opens in new window)
PDF 98 KB
FORT WORTH, Texas — American Airlines has signed new long-term agreements with the three major global distribution systems — Amadeus, Sabre and Travelport — to continue to provide easy ways for customers to purchase travel from American. These new agreements and American’s New Distribution Capability (NDC) technology, provide customers more opportunities to experience modern retailing with access to American’s content, including elevated offers and ancillary products in more channels.
American has signed long-term distribution deals with Amadeus, Sabre and Travelport.
These agreements will provide American with content flexibility to offer travel retailers and corporate customers with the airline’s best content through New Distribution Capability (NDC) connections in 2023.
Amadeus, Sabre and Travelport will continue to work with American to enhance NDC connections for travel retailers.
FORT WORTH, Texas — American Airlines has signed new long-term agreements with the three major global distribution systems — Amadeus, Sabre and Travelport — to continue to provide easy ways for customers to purchase travel from American. These new agreements and American’s New Distribution Capability (NDC) technology, provide customers more opportunities to experience modern retailing with access to American’s content, including elevated offers and ancillary products in more channels.
“We are proud to sign these new agreements and continue to strengthen our relationships with the three leading global distribution systems,” said American’s Senior Vice President of Partnership Strategy Scott Laurence. “We look forward to working with our distribution partners to expand our retailing capabilities, using NDC technology, to provide travel retailers and customers the products and services most meaningful to them.”
These new agreements provide American with content flexibility, and in 2023, the airline will be able to offer its best content, products and fares through NDC connections and direct channels, such as
aa.com
. American’s NDC-enabled content is already available with Amadeus and Travelport and will be available in Sabre in early 2023.
American’s NDC-powered retail capabilities offer greater selections to travel retailers and corporate customers and broader access to the airline’s products and services. Enhanced offerings available in NDC connections and on
aa.com
include Main Plus, Main Select and Flagship
®
Business Plus fares, carbon offsets via Cool Effect
®
, and day-of-travel features such as seat choices, upgrades and pre-ordered meals.
About American Airlines Group
To Care for People on Life’s Journey®. Shares of American Airlines Group Inc. trade on Nasdaq under the ticker symbol AAL and the company’s stock is included in the S&P 500. Learn more about what’s happening at American by visiting
news.aa.com
and connect with American on Twitter
@AmericanAir
and at
Facebook.com/AmericanAirlines
.
Multimedia Files:
Resources
Multimedia
Logos
Fact sheets
Leader bios
Share this article
Share this article
Download PDF
Like this article? Never miss another one.
Subscribe to notifications
Recent articles:
Press inquiries:
mediarelations@aa.com
aa.com
About us
Environmental, social and governance
Investor relations
©
American Airlines. All rights reserved |
Legal, privacy & copyright
Privacy and cookies
We use cookies on our website. Your interactions and personal data may be collected on our websites by us and our partners in accordance with our privacy policy.
Privacy policy.
Dismiss