On Orbitz, Mac Users Steered to Pricier Hotels - WSJ
Skip to Main Content
Explore Our Brands
WSJ
Barron's
MarketWatch
IBD
WSJ | Buy Side
The Wall Street Journal
English Edition
Edition
Use Alt + Down Arrow to expand.
English中文 (Chinese)日本語 (Japanese)
Print Edition
Video
Audio
Latest Headlines
Puzzles
More
MoreOther Products from WSJWSJ | Buy SideThe Journal CollectionWSJ ShopWSJ Wine
World
Business
U.S.
Politics
Economy
Tech
Markets & Finance
Opinion
Free Expression
Arts
Lifestyle
Real Estate
Personal Finance
Health
Style
Sports
Advertisement
This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only. Distribution and use of this material are governed by
our Subscriber Agreement and by copyright law. For non-personal use or to order multiple copies, please contact
Dow Jones Reprints at 1-800-843-0008 or visit www.djreprints.com.
https://www.wsj.com/articles/SB10001424052702304458604577488822667325882
On Orbitz, Mac Users Steered to Pricier Hotels
By
Dana Mattioli
Orbitz has found that Apple users spend as much as 30% more a night on hotels, so the online travel site is starting to show them different, and sometimes costlier, options than Windows visitors see. Dana Mattioli has details on The News Hub. Photo: Bloomberg.
Orbitz Worldwide Inc. has found that people who use Apple Inc.'s Mac computers spend as much as 30% more a night on hotels, so the online travel agency is starting to show them different, and sometimes costlier, travel options than Windows visitors see.
The Orbitz effort, which is in its early stages, demonstrates how tracking people's online activities can use even seemingly innocuous information—in this case, the fact that customers are visiting Orbitz.com from a Mac—to start predicting their tastes and spending habits.
Orbitz executives confirmed that the company is experimenting with showing different hotel offers to Mac and PC visitors, but said the company isn't showing the same room to different users at different prices. They also pointed out that users can opt to rank results by price.
Orbitz found Mac users on average spend $20 to $30 more a night on hotels than their PC counterparts, a significant margin given the site's average nightly hotel booking is around $100, chief scientist Wai Gen Yee said. Mac users are 40% more likely to book a four- or five-star hotel than PC users, Mr. Yee said, and when Mac and PC users book the same hotel, Mac users tend to stay in more expensive rooms.
Copyright ©2026 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 87990cbe856818d5eddac44c7b1cdeb8
Most Popular News
Most Popular
OPINION
Recommended Videos
Advertisement