Alaska Access
Book Trips
Sign In
Now arriving: Alaska Access
Welcome to Alaska’s new membership program—bringing frequent flyers
like you more benefits than ever before. With Alaska Access, you’ll
be the first to know about (and score) the very best fares we have to
offer.
All of this for only
$5
per month
With a 12-month commitment
Terms and Conditions
Score early sale
access
, a
personalized fare page and
Wi-Fi
in the sky.
Monthly Wi-Fi voucher
Stay connected and productive onboard, or just sit back and stream
your favorite shows.
Early sale access
Be the first to land low fares to your favorite destinations during
our legendary sales.
Personalized fare page
Get the best seat for the best price with an easier, member-only way
to view deals.
What you’ll enjoy
Alaska Access: beyond the benefits; it’s our way of saying we care.
Reduce the time you spend browsing with member-only fare pages,
early access to sales, and monthly delivery of a Wi-Fi voucher to
stay connected on your journey.
How it works
For $5 a month, you get a
personalized fares link and Wi-Fi voucher, available whenever you’re
ready for takeoff. Plus, for some of our largest sales of the year,
you will be alerted via the Alaska Airlines Mobile App the night
before we publish to the general public.
Already a member?
We hope you’re enjoying all the benefits Alaska Access has to offer. Need
to update your account details? Simply use the link below.
Manage my membership
Frequently asked questions
Why should I get Alaska Access?
Early Sale Access -
With an Alaska Access you’ll be the first to know about some of our biggest sales. Look out for in-app notifications alerting you to the upcoming sale the night before the rest of the world finds out (with the ability to book at sale prices immediately). This means you can book your favorite route times and seats on our deals before they’re gone!
Savings -
Whether you’re a frequent user of our onboard Wi-Fi or have been wanting to try it, with your Alaska Access membership, you get a one-time-use voucher every month! Satellite Wi-Fi allows you to stream, browse and chat on-board with internet service that’s more like what you’re used to on the ground. Satellite Wi-Fi is available almost everywhere we fly - with the exception of flights above the Arctic Circle in Alaska.
How does early sale access work?
For some of our largest sales of the year, you will be alerted via the Alaska Airlines Mobile App of all the sale details the night before we publish to the general public. You’ll be able to book the sales prices from the moment you’re notified, through the end of the sale. This early access means you can pick your preferred flight times and seats before others begin taking advantage of the sale.
What is a personalized fare page?
We want you to spend less time planning your trip and more time enjoying it! A personalized fare page through Alaska Access is a unique web page where you’ll be able to see our lowest fares by money and miles to our more than 500 global destinations! This view takes the guesswork and time out of finding the best valued flights on Alaska Airlines.
When do I get my Wi-Fi vouchers?
When you fly with us, staying connected is easy. As soon as you subscribe, a voucher is created in our system and available for you to redeem onboard. Simply follow the prompts for redeeming an Alaska Access Wi-Fi session on alaskaair.com. Our system will create a new pass for you at the start of each calendar month as long as your subscription is valid.
Vouchers expire at the end of each calendar month, do not roll over, and can only be redeemed by the subscriber on file.
Do I have to be an Atmos Rewards member to have Alaska Access?
Yes. Alaska Access subscriptions use Atmos Rewards account sign-in information, so you can easily manage your Alaska Airlines traveler profile and subscription plans. You can only receive your early sale access benefit when you have an Atmos Rewards account. If you don’t have one yet, you can join for free before finishing your enrollment in Alaska Access.
Atmos Rewards members will not earn points for purchasing Alaska Access but our award-winning program allows you to earn points with us, oneworld® Alliance member airlines and our Global Partners, experience award travel, and reach elite status sooner than you think. Learn more about Atmos Rewards
here
.
What do I pay for Alaska Access?
Alaska Access is a fixed price of $5 per month including taxes and fees.
Can I use points or Alaska Airlines wallet funds to pay for Alaska Access?
Points and eWallet funds are not an available payment method for Alaska Access.
Can I add family members to my same Alaska Access membership?
Every Alaska Access member must be at least 18 years of age and have their own subscription. We plan to add the ability for minor children and even companies to establish group accounts in the future!
Can I buy an Alaska Access membership for someone else?
No, each subscriber must sign-up by logging into their Atmos Rewards account.
How do I modify my account information?
Your Alaska Access account is now managed through your Atmos Rewards account via single sign-on (no separate username and password for Alaska Access required). Your subscription information, including billing methods, is managed via
My Subscriptions
page.
Alaska Airlines Guest CARE is also available to answer questions and provide support on the Alaska Access subscription Monday through Friday from 9am to 6pm at 1-866-347-7414. Any Wi-Fi connectivity issues should be reported directly to
support@wifionboard.com
.
How long does my subscription last?
The Alaska Access membership requires a 12-month commitment. Though we’d be sad to see you go, you can set your subscription to expire at the end of this term via
My Subscriptions
page.
With complimentary, ultra-fast Starlink Wi-Fi coming soon for our Atmos™ Rewards members, we’ll be sunsetting the Alaska Access program starting November 1, 2025. Current members will continue to enjoy their Alaska Access benefits through the end of their subscription or October 31, 2026, whichever comes first.
4 Ways to Fly
First Class, Premium Class,
Main Cabin and Saver
Get started
Protect and jet-set.
Enjoy a full year of benefits for covered trip cancellations, travel delays, and more.
About Alaska
Who we are
Careers
Newsroom
Investor relations
Legal
Contract of carriage
Privacy notice
Customer service
Help center
Feedback and complaints
Travel advisories
Customer service commitment
Canada - air travel rights
Tarmac delay plan
Site map
Products and services
Optional services and fees
Corporate travel
EasyBiz
Travel agents
Cargo
Gift certificates
Travel insurance
Email deals
Sign up now
We care a lot
Give feedback
Mobile
Get the app
Follow us
Shop our company store
Explore where we fly
Flights to countries
Flights to cities
Country to country flights
City to city flights
Flights from cities
Flights from countries
Notice indicator that this external link may not follow the same accessibility or privacy policies as Alaska Airlines.
Notice indicator to alert users that action will result in the browser opening a new tab or window.
© 2026 Alaska Airlines, Inc. All rights reserved.
Alaska Access and Flight Pass are powered by